Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-61
light the target, making it easier to acquire effectively. Leaders and Soldiers 
use the infrared devices to identify enemy or friendly personnel and then 
engage targets using their aiming lights. 
4-172. Illuminating rounds fired to burn on the ground can mark objectives. This helps
the platoon orient on the objective but may adversely affect night vision devices.
4-173. Leaders plan but do not always use illumination during limited visibility
attacks. Battalion commanders normally control conventional illumination but may
authorize the company commander to do so. If the commander decides to use
conventional illumination , the commander should not call for it until the assault is
initiated or the attack is detected. It should be placed on several locations over a wide
area to confuse the enemy as to the exact place of the attack. It should be placed beyond
the objective to help assaulting Soldiers see and fire at withdrawing or counterattacking
enemy Soldiers. Infrared illumination is a good capability to light the objective without
lighting it for enemy forces without night vision devices.  This advantage is degraded
when used against a peer threat with the same night vision capabilities.
4-174. The platoon leader , squad leaders , and vehicle commanders must know unit
tactical SOP and develop sound COAs to synchronize the employment of infrared
illumination devices , target designators , and aiming lights during their assault on the
objective. These include using luminous tape or chemical lights to mark personnel and
using weapons control restrictions.
4-175. The platoon leader may use the following techniques to increase control during
the assault:
 Use no flares, grenades, or obscuration on the objective.
 Use mortar or artillery rounds to orient attacking units.
 Use a base squad or fire team to pace and guide others.
 Reduce intervals between Soldiers and squads.
4-176. Like a daylight attack , indirect and direct fires are planned for a limited
visibility attack but are not executed unless the platoon is detected or is ready to assault.
Some weapons may fire before the attack and maintain a pattern to deceive the enemy
or to help cover noise ma de by the platoon ’s movement. This is not done if it will
disclose the attack.
4-177. Obscuration further reduces the enemy’s visibility, particularly if the enemy has
night vision devices. The FO fires obscuration rounds close to or on enemy positions ,
so it does not restrict friendly movement or hinder the reduction of obstacles. Employing 
obscuration on the objective during the assault may make it hard for assaulting Soldiers
to find enemy fighting positions. If enough thermal sights are available , obscuration on
the objective may provide a decisive advantage for a well-trained platoon.
Note. If the enemy is equipped with night vision devices ,  leaders must evaluate 
the risk of using each technique and ensure the mission is not compromised by 
the enemy’s ability to detect infrared light sources. 