Chapter 4 
4-2 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
AUDACITY 
4-3. Audacity is a willingness to take bold risks. The bold execution of plans increases
the chance for surprise and enables leaders to control the tempo. This depends upon the
leader’s ability to see opportunities for action and accept prudent risks commensurate
with the value of their objectives to take advantage of those opportunities. Leaders dispel 
uncertainty by acting decisively and inspire Soldiers to overcome adversity and danger.
They compensate for a lack of information by developing the situation aggressively and
seizing the initiative. The Infantry platoon and squad demonstrate audacity through—
 Building flexible plans that allow leaders to adapt to changing circumstances.
 Maintaining situational awareness to identify and take advantage of
opportunities.
 Understanding the true value of an objective to the larger operation and the
risks involved in achieving it.
 Maintain continuous communications to ensure others are aware of changes
to the plan.
 Requesting additional support as required to mitigate unnecessary risks.
CONCENTRATION 
4-4. Concentration is massing  the effects of combat power in time and space at the
decisive point (s) to achieve a single purpose. This requires coordination and an
awareness of the environment to position forces in ways that enable concentration
without losing surprise , sacrificing tempo, or creating lu crative targets for the enemy.
The Infantry platoon and squad achieve concentration through—
 Careful planning and coordination to synchronize efforts based on a thorough 
terrain and enemy analysis and accurate reconnaissance and surveillance.
 Designating a main effort and allocating resources to support it.
 Integrating effects from higher -level assets, including indirect fires , Army
and joint and multinational aviation assets , and electromagnetic warfare
(EW) with maneuver.
 Maintaining continuous information flow to keep operations synchronized.
SURPRISE 
4-5. Surprise is an effect achieved by attacking the enemy at a time or place they do
not expect or in a manner for which they are unprepared. Surprise delays enemy
reactions, overloads and confuses enemy command and control systems , induces
psychological shock in enemy Soldiers and leaders , and reduces the coherence of
defensive missions. By diminishing enemy combat power, surprise enables the attackers
to exploit enemy paralysis and hesitancy. The Infantry platoon and squad achieve
surprise by—
 Conducting thorough reconnaissance and surveillance to confirm enemy
disposition, determine what actions they are prepared for , and identify
opportunities to exploit in unexpected ways.