Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-33
commander coordinates forward passage through security forces in contact as required. 
The intent is to deliver the assault before the enemy can deploy or reinforce engaged 
forces. The main body commander or a higher commander may order an attack from a 
march column, for example , platoon(s) or company , f rom one of the main body’ s 
columns, while the rest of the main body deploys. The commander also can wait to 
attack until bringing the bulk of the main body forward. This avoids piecemeal 
commitment except when rapidity of action is essential, combat superiority at the vital 
point is present  and can be maintained throughout the attack, or when 
compartmentalized terrain forces a different COA. When trying to conduct an 
envelopment (see paragraph  4-15), the commander focuses on attacking the enemy ’s 
flanks and rear before the enemy prepares to counter these actions. The commander uses 
the security force to fix the enemy while the main body maneuvers to look for an 
assailable flank. Elements of the main body also can be used to fix the enemy while the 
security force finds the assailable flank. (See ATP 3-21.10 for additional information.) 
Follow Through 
4-87. If the enemy is defeated , the unit transitions back into movement to contact and
continue to advance. The movement to contact terminates when the unit reaches the final
march objective or LOA , or transitions to a more deliberate operation, attack, area
defense, or retrograde.
ASSESS 
4-88. By the nature of a movement to contact, when the enemy situation is vague or not
specific enough to conduct another operation, the platoon leader assesses and reassesses
the mission prior to and during the movement to contact. Assessment is the continuous
monitoring and evaluation of a current situation, and the progress of an operation. It
involves deliberately comparing forecasted outcomes to actual events to determine the
overall effectiveness of force employment. Assessment allows the platoon leader to
maintain accurate situational awareness and to a lesser degree situational understanding. 
Continued monitoring and evaluation of the current situation helps the platoon leader
make timely and accurate decisions. Assessment of effects is determining how the
platoon actions have succeeded against the enemy. Effects typically are assessed by
measure of performance and measure of effectiveness. (See ATP 3-21.10 for additional
information.)
SECTION IV – ATTACK 
4-89. An attack destroys or defeats enemy forces , seizes and secures terrain , or both.
The attack can be a hasty or deliberate operation depending upon the time available for
assessing the situation , planning, and preparing. An attack incorporates coordinated
movement supported by direct  fires and fire support. A n attack masses the effects of
overwhelming combat power against selected portions of the enemy force with a tempo
and intensity that cannot be matched by the enemy. The resulting combat should not be
a contest between near equals. Attackers seek decisions on the ground of their choosing