Chapter 4 
4-36 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
platoon leader may shift the main effort during execution. A supporting effort  is a 
designated subordinate unit with a mission that supports the success of the main effort 
(ADP 3 -0). The platoon leader resources the supporting effort(s) with the minimum 
assets necessary to accomplish the mission. The platoon often realizes success of  the 
main effort through the success of the supporting effort(s). 
4-98. During a deliberate operation, the platoon leader’s main effort accomplishes the
destruction of the enemy force, seizure of a terrain objective, or the defeat of the enemy’s
plan. The platoon’s scheme of maneuver identifies the focus of the main effort. Because
the potential for obstacles always exists, the platoon leader should designate an assault,
breach, and support element within the platoon to conduct a breach during the attack.
4-99. During a hasty operation, the platoon leader retains flexibility by arranging forces
in-depth and maintains more of a centralized control of subordinate elements, direct and
indirect fires, and fire support systems. As soon as the tactical situation develops enough
to allow the platoon leader to identify the decisive point (s), the platoon leader focuses
available resources to support the designated main effort’s achievement of its objective.
RESERVE 
4-100. The reserve is used to exploit success , defeat enemy counterattacks, or restore
momentum to a stalled attack. The Infantry rifle platoon leader does not generally
designate a dedicated reserve for platoon missions , whether conducted independent of
the company or not. For a company mission, the dedicated reserve (when designated) is
usually a squad- size element. For a battalion mission , the dedicated reserve (when
designated) is usually a platoon-size element. The reserve is not a committed force and
is not used as a follow  and support force , or a follow  and assume force.  Follow and
assume is a tactical mission task in which a committed force follows and supports a lead
force conducting an offensive operation and continues mission if lead force cannot
continue (FM 3-90). Follow and support is a tactical mission task in which a committed
force follows and supports a lead force conducting an offensive operation ( FM 3-90).
Once committed, the reserve’s actions normally become or reinforce the echelon’s main
effort. Once the reserve is committed , every effort is made to reconstitute another
reserve from units made available by the revised situation. Often a commander’ s most
difficult and important decision concerns the time , place, and circumstances for
committing the reserve.
CONTROL MEASURES 
4-101. Units conducting an attack operate within an assigned AO. Regardless of
whether the attack takes place in a contiguous or noncontiguous assigned area, the owner 
of the AO normally designates control measures.
4-102. The owner uses only the control measures necessary to control the attack. Short
of the LD or line of contact ( LC), the leader may designate TAA and attack positions
where the unit prepares for the mission or waits for the establishment of required
conditions to initiate the attack. Beyond the LD or LC , leaders may designate
checkpoints, phase lines , PLD, lateral boundaries , assault positions , and direct and