Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-47
 Briefing the troops.
 Conducting rehearsals , to include test firing (test firing dependent on the
situation, though not conducted past the LD) of weapons.
 Moving logistics and medical support forward.
 Promoting adequate rest for both leaders and Soldiers.
 Positioning the force for subsequent action.
 PCCs and PCIs.
4-135. Preparation for an attack against a moving enemy force is limited because the
opportunity to attack the enemy at the appropriate time and place depends on the
enemy’s movement. This forces the platoon to focus the preparation on executing fires
and movement and maneuver actions regarding the enemy’ s location , or possible
locations, and disposition when engaged. The platoon leader prioritizes each location to
ensure the platoon prepares for the most likely engagements first. The platoon leader
ensures all su bordinate leaders understand their role at each location and the decision
point for execution at each location. Leaders rehearse actions , as possible , in each
location against various enemy conditions to promote flexibility and initiative consistent 
with the commander’s intent. Battle drills , SOPs, and rehearsals against likely enemy
actions are essential for success in preparation for an attack.
4-136. As part of TLP , a leader’s reconnaissance (see paragraph 7 -15) of the actual
terrain should be conducted  with all key leaders when this will not compromise the
attack or result in excessive risk to the leaders on the reconnaissance. Modern
information systems can enable leaders to conduct a virtual reconnaissance when a
physical reconnaissance is not practical. If a limited -visibility attack is planned , they
should reconnoiter the terrain at night.
EXECUTE 
4-137. During execution, the platoon leader maneuvers the platoon to close with and
destroy or defeat enemy forces , seize, and secure terrain , or both.  The following
paragraphs discuss executing a company attack (specific to platoon scheme of
maneuver) using the f our-step tactical framework of the offense (find, fix, finish, and
follow through) discussed earlier in this chapter.
Note. Regarding the enemy’s p lan, a defending enemy generally establishes a 
security zone around or forward of main enemy forces to make early contact with 
friendly attacking forces. This helps the enemy determine the attacking force ’s 
capabilities, intent, chosen COA, and delays their approach. The enemy leader 
uses the security zone to strip away friendly reconnaissance forces and hide the 
enemy’s main body dispositions , capabilities, and intent. The goal is to compel 
the friendly attacking force to conduct movement to contact against the enemy 
defending force while knowing the exact location of attacking friendly forces. 