Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-51
approaches the minimum safe line, observers call for fires shift (or cease), allowing the 
breach force to move safely in the danger area (see paragraph A-29). From the PLD, the 
assault force maneuvers against or around the enemy to take advantage of support 
force’s efforts to suppress the targeted enemy positions.  
Note. For discussion purposes ,
  the platoon breach and assault will primarily 
focus on the actions of Company C, the battalion’s main effort. 
4-144. The following example, see figure 4-9, used for discussion purposes, represents
one way to conduct a platoon breach prior to the company’ s assault on Objective Fox
North. In the scenario , as breach forces close on the points of breach , Company C
commander establishes local support by fire positions (with attached Assault Platoon 3)
to support First Platoon’s breach. Assault Platoon 3 (with Company C mortar section to
engage targets on the far side of the breach) moves by section on the company’ s left
flank. As Company C’s First Platoon advances , Assault Platoon 3, on order or as First
Platoon starts to receive effective fires in route to the obstacle begins to suppress the
enemy overwatching the obstacle to isolate—a tactical mission task in which a unit seals
off an enemy , physically and psychologically, from sources of support and denies it
freedom of movement (FM 3-90)—the points of breach, west of Phase Line Bob. Once
the points of breach locations are isolated by Assault Platoon 3, First Platoon moves
forward with attached engineers to conduct two explosive breaches of the wire obstacle.
The effect of the enemy wire obstacle, west of Objective Fox North, is to block any
eastward movement along the trail network. First and Second Squads of First Platoon
establish local support by fire positions to support engineer breaches. Once the obstacle
breach is open, attached engineers create and mark lanes , and guide Third Squad, Fire
Team A (under control of the Third Squad leader, with one attached machine gun) and
Third Squad, Fire Team  B (under the control of the First Platoon, We apons Squad
Leader, with one attached machine gun) through the obstacle to establish two footholds
on the far side of the two breaches. Once footholds are established, f ire teams employ
two local support  by fire positions (SFB -A and SBF -B, reference figure 4 -9 on
page 4-52) to support Second and Third Platoons ’ assault through the breach and
movement to the platoon ’s PLD for the assault of Objective Fox North. (See chapter 6
section I for additional information on  actions on the objective involving support ,
breach, and assault elements in the attack.)