Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-45
means to maximize the effects of mass in the initial assault. They also prevent the enemy 
from concentrating defensive fires against successive attacks. 
4-125. In planning, the platoon leader and subordinate leaders focus on the routes ,
formations, and navigational aids they will use to traverse the ground from the LD or
PLD to the objective. Some terrain locations may require the attacking platoon to change 
its movement formation, direction of movement , or movement technique when it
reaches those locations. The platoon can post guides at these critical locations to ensure
maintaining control over the movement.
4-126. To employ the proper capabilities and tactics , the platoon leader and
subordinate leaders must have detailed knowledge of the enemy’ s organization ,
equipment, and tactics. They must understand enemy strengths and weaknesses. The
platoon leader may need to request information to answer platoon information
requirements.
4-127. Generally, if the platoon leader does not have timely , relevant, and accurate
intelligence products and assessments , and does not know where the overwhelming
majority of the enemy ’s units and systems are located, the leader cannot conduct a
deliberate operation. The attacking unit must conduct a movement to contact , then
conduct a hasty operation once contact is made, or collect more combat information.
4-128. Leaders within the platoon may find themselves as the observer (and executor)
of company- and battalion-level fires or exploiting the success of higher echelon military 
deception operations (for example, feints and demonstrations [see chapter 6 section V]).
Understanding the concept of echelon fires is critical for indirect fire planning to be
synchronized with the maneuver plan. The purpose of echeloning fires (see appendix B)
is to maintain constant fires on a target while using the optimum delivery syste m up to
the point of its risk-estimate distance in combat operations or minimum safe distance in
training. Echeloning fires provides protection for friendly forces as they move to and
assault an objective , allowing them to close with minimal casualties. It prevents the
enemy from observing and engaging the assault by forcing the enemy to take cover ,
allowing the friendly force to continue the advance unimpeded.
4-129. The goal of the platoon leader’s attack criteria is to focus fires on seizing the
initiative. The leader emphasizes simple and rapidly integrated direct fires and fire
support plans. This is done using quick -fire planning techniques (see ATP  3-21.10 for
additional information) and good SOPs. Leader s integrate fire assets as far forward as
possible in the movement formation to facilitate early emplacement. Leaders
concentrate combat powers at decisive points and times on forward enemy elements to
enable maneuver efforts to close with the enemy positions.