Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-57
ASSESS 
4-155. Assessment refers to the continuous monitoring and evaluation of the current
situation, particularly the enemy , and progress of an operation. Platoon leaders
constantly assess the actual progress of the operation against the plan and look for
variance in the form of emerging threats or opportunities. Assessment precedes and
guides every operations process activity and concludes each operation or phase of an
operation. It involves a comparison of forecasted outcomes to actual events. Assessment
entails three tasks:
 Continuously assessing the enemy’s reactions and vulnerabilities.
 Continuously monitoring the situation and progress of operation towards the
commander’s desired end state.
 Evaluating the operation against measures of effectiveness and measures of
performance.
4-156. Upon receiving the mission, platoon leaders perform an initial assessment of
the situation and the mission variables of METT -TC (I), focusing on the unit ’s role in
the larger operation, and allocating time for planning and preparing. The two most
important products from this initial assessment should be at least a partial restated
mission, and a timeline. Platoon leaders issue their initial warning order ( WARNORD)
on this first assessment and time allocation. Assessment continues during planning,
updated as needed throughout preparation and execution based on information gained
through the platoon leader’s continuous assessment.
4-157. Assessment of risk assists the platoon leader in making informed decisions on
changing task organization, shifting priorities of effort and support , and future
operations. Effectiveness entails making accurate assessments and good decisions about
how to fight the enemy. Vital supporting concepts are TLP, actions on contact, and risk
management (see chapter 2). Leaders use the assessment process to generate combat
power.
4-158. Specific to execution , assessment involves a deliberate comparison of
forecasted outcomes to actual events, using indicators to judge progress toward attaining 
desired end state conditions. Assessments help platoon leaders to adjust plans based on
changes in the situation, when the operation is complete, and when to transition into the
next cycle of the operations process. Platoon leaders constantly assess the actual
progress of the operation against the plan through the following (although not
all-inclusive) questions:
 Is there new or changing intelligence from high headquarters?
 Are there new priority intelligence requirements (PIRs) and/or information
requirements (and were current PIRs answered correctly)?
 Is the platoon synched with the plan, for example:
 Is the movement faster or slower than planned?
 Are the obstacle types and locations templated correctly?
 Is planned ammunition consumption correct?
 Is combat power still adequate to accomplish the mission?