Chapter 4 
4-16 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
PROTECTION 
4-40. The rapid tempo and changing nature of the offense presents challenges to the
protection of friendly assets. The forward movement of subordinate units is critical if
the leader is to maintain the initiative necessary for offensive operations. Denying the
enemy, a chance to plan , prepare, and execute a response to the friendly offense by
maintaining a high operational tempo is a vital means the leader employs to ensure the
survivability of the platoon. Using multiple routes, dispersion, piecemeal destruction of
isolated enemy forces , scheduled rotation, and relief of forces before they culminate,
and wise use of terrain are techniques for maintaining a high tempo of offense.  During
the attack , the leader integrates and synchronizes the use of obscuration to support
critical actions such as breaching or assaults. The mission variables of  METT-TC (I)
determine the exact techniques employed in a specific situation.
4-41. Depending on the threat , primary protection concerns of the platoon leader may
be enemy air threats , to include hostile small , unmanned aircraft systems. (See Battle
Drill-React to Aircraft While Dismounted, appendix E.) If these threats exist, the leader
prepares the unit and adjust s the scheme of maneuver accordingly. In the face of an
enemy air threat , the platoon usually has minimal active and passive (with its organic
weapons) air defenses. Air defense units are usually not assigned below IBCT level.
However, air defense assets may be located near the platoon and may provide coverage.
If air defense elements are assigned , the platoon leader with the advisement of the air
defense element leader determines likely enemy air avenues of approach and plans
movement routes accordingly. The platoon leader establishes priorities for protection
during movement and during actions on the objective. (See ATP 3 -01.81 for additional
information.)
4-42. Planning for air defense and implementing all forms of active and passive  air
defense measures are imperative to minimize the vulnerability to enemy air attack. The
platoon leader integrates the fire support plan with any attached or supporting air defense 
assets. Should hostile aircraft attack during movement, the subordinate unit under attack
moves off the road into a defensive posture and immediately engages the aircraft with
all available automatic weapons. The rest of the platoon moves to covered and concealed
areas until the engagement ends. Air defense units , when available, may move with the
platoon. In this case, the air defense unit leader ensures both the current and projected
weapons control status (WCS) and air defense warning are known. (See ATP 3-01.8 for
additional information.)
4-43. During the conduct of a passage of lines , units participating in the operation
present a lucrative target for air attack. The passing unit leader coordinates air defense
(when available) protection with the stationary force during the passage of lines. This
method allows the passing force supporting air defense assets to conduct a move at the
same time. If the passing force requires static air defense, then it coordinates the terrain
with the stationary commander.
4-44. When attached in a direct support role during the offense , air defense assets can
increase protection for command posts. In addition , air defense assets may provide
security to maneuver and sustainment units and positioned to overwatch key air and