Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-59
retake its prior primary battle position , see paragraph s 5-172 to 5 -173.) The leader 
directs a counterattac k to defeat or destroy enemy forces , exploit an enemy weakness 
such as an exposed flank , or to regain control of terrain and facilities after an enemy 
success. Units executing a counterattack can use all or part of the defending force, to 
include their reserve when given as a priority planning mission, against an enemy 
attacking force. 
4-163. A unit conducts a counterattack to seize the initiative from the enemy through
offensive action. A counterattacking force may maneuver to isolate and destroy a
designated enemy force, or it can be an attack by fire into an engagement area to defeat
or destroy an enemy force, restore the original position, or block an enemy penetration.
4-164. To be decisive , the counterattack occurs when the enemy is overextended,
dispersed, and disorganized during the attack. All counterattacks should be rehearsed in
the same conditions they will be conducted. During planning and preparation, leaders
consider planning the commitment criteria and triggers for conducting a counterattack.
In execution, leaders must be alert to those criteria and triggers emerging during an
operation. If they do emerge , the platoon leader immediately launches the planned
counterattack. Once committed, that force becomes the main effort.
RAID 
4-165. A raid is a limited-objective, deliberate operation entailing swift penetration of
hostile terrain. A raid is not intended to hold territory ; and it requires detailed
intelligence, preparation, and planning. (See chapter 7 for additional information.) The
Infantry platoon and squad conducts raids as part of a larger force to accomplish several
missions, including the following:
 Capture prisoners, installations, or enemy materiel.
 Capture or destroy specific enemy command and control locations.
 Destroy enemy materiel or installations.
 Obtain information concerning enemy locations , dispositions, strength,
intentions, or methods of operation.
 Confuse the enemy or disrupt the enemy’s plans.
 Liberate friendly personnel.
SPOILING ATTACK 
4-166. A spoiling attack  is a variation of an attack employed against an enemy
preparing for an attack (FM 3-90). The spoiling attack usually employs armored, attack
helicopter, or fire support elements to attack enemy assembly positions in front of a
friendly commander’s main line of resistance or battle positions.