Chapter 4 
4-62 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
DELIBERATE BATTLEFIELD OBSCURATION 
4-178. Battlefield obscuration mission s can occur during both the offense and the
defense and can be highly effective. Firing obscuration on enemy positions can degrade
the vision of gunners and known or suspected observation posts , preventing them from
seeing or tracking targets and, thereby, reducing their effectiveness. When employed for
its incendiary effect, white phosphorous (WP) can cause confusion and disorientation
by degrading the enemy’s command and control capabilities; while friendly units retain
the ability to engage the enemy using thermal sights and DA Form 5517 ( Standard
Range Card). Enemy vehicles become silhouetted as they emerge from the obscuration.
If obscuration employment is planned and executed correctly, this occurs as the enemy
reaches the trigger line. (See ATP 3-11.50 for additional information.)
Note. Phosphorous obscuration is used in instantaneous burst munitions (for 
example, artillery shells and mortar cartridges) , with the showers of burning 
phosphorous particles being highly incendiary. The projectile has an 
incendiary-producing effect and is ballistically similar to the high  explosive 
projectile. Normally , shell WP is employed for its incendiary effect. The 
projectile can also be used for screening, spotting, and signaling purposes. 
Projected Obscuration 
4-179. Projected obscuration is an obscurant produced by artillery or mortar munitions,
naval gunfire, helicopter-delivered rockets or, potentially, weapon grenade launchers.
The advantage of using projected obscurant munitions is that they can place obscurants
directly on the target without becoming decisively engaged. The disadvantage of
projected obscuration is that most projected obscurant devices and munitions are lethal;
they cannot be used on or near friendly forces. Ideal military applications for projecte d
obscuration systems are to produce protection effects by obscuring enemy forces at
distant locations and to mark distant targets for destruction by lethal fire or protection
obscuration to initiate protection screens forward of an attacking force.
4-180. Obscuration employed to screen friendly forces and their interests is delivered
in areas between friendly and enemy forces or in a friendly AO to degrade enemy ground 
or aerial detection , observation, and engagement capabilities. Units use screening
obscuration to attack enemy target acquisition and guidance systems by placing
obscuration effects between the friendly unit and enemy sensors. There are three
visibility categories for visual screening obscuration that the supported unit commander
uses to establish the visibility requirement for an obscuration mission. The visibility
categories include obscuration blanket, haze, and curtain:
 Obscuration blanket. An obscuration blanket is a dense horizontal
concentration of smoke covering an area of ground with visibility inside the
concentration less than 50 meters. The blanket is established over and around
friendly areas to protect them from air visual observation and visual precision 
bombing attacks. An obscuration blanket may hamper the operations of