Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-3
 Changing the tempo of operations or accepting risk in a way the enemy was
unable to anticipate.
 Conducting counterreconnaissance , employing stealth , and disrupting
communications to deny enemy situational understanding.
 Striking the enemy from an unexpected direction, at an unexpected time, and
with a combination of capabilities that they are unable to defeat.
TEMPO 
4-6. Tempo is the relative speed and rhythm of military operations over time with
respect to the enemy (ADP 3-0). Tempo is not simply moving fast, but the idea that the
cumulative effects of offense operations place enemy forces under continuous pressure.
Even if portions of friendly forces are in a tactical pause, someone is always applying
pressure, resulting in an enemy force that is reactive. Controlling or altering tempo is
necessary to retain the initiative. A faster tempo allows attackers to quickly penetrate
barriers and defenses and destroy enemy forces in- depth before they can react. Leaders
can also purposely slow the tempo to lull the enemy into a false sense of security, but
this is rarely done at the platoon or squad level. Leaders adjust tempo as tactical
situations, sustainment necessity , or operational opportunities allow. They ensure
synchronization and proper coordination, but not at the expense of losing opportunities
to defeat the enemy. Rapid tempo denies the enemy the chance to rest while continually
creating offensive opportunities but demands quick decisions and places ever increasing
strain on Soldiers, equipment, and systems. The Infantry platoon and squad control the
tempo by—
 Streamlining planning, preparation, and recovery activities to start movement
more quickly than expected from a previous action.
 Moving more quickly than expected, especially across restrictive terrain.
 Engaging the enemy at multiple locations within a short time or
simultaneously.
 Maintaining situational awareness and audaciously exploiting opportunities
as they appear.
OFFENSIVE OPERATIONS 
4-7. An offensive operation is an operation to defeat or destroy enemy forces and gain
control of terrain , resources, and population centers (ADP 3- 0). Offensive operations
impose the leader’s will on an enemy. The offense is the most direct means of seizing ,
retaining, and exploiting the initiative to gain a physical and psychological advantage.
In the offense , the platoon ’s main effort is a sudden action directed toward enemy
weaknesses and capitalizing on speed, surprise, and shock. If that effort fails to destroy
an enemy, operations continue until enemy forces are defeated. The offense compels an
enemy to react, creating new or larger weaknesses the attacking force can exploit. The
four types of offensive operations are movement to contact , attack, exploitation, and
pursuit.