Chapter 4 
4-18 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
4-47. The most basic protection from enemy EW is radio discipline. This can take the
form of limiting transmissions, antenna masking, and use of low power. Limiting the
number of overall transmissions and transmission time when a radio microphone is
keyed makes it more difficult for enemy EW operators to target friendly forces for
geolocation and jamming. ( See paragraphs 2 -34 to 2-39 for additional information on
radio discipline and paragraph 2-42 for additional information on EP.)
4-48. Detainees and captured enemy equipment or materiel often provide excellent
combat information (see paragraph 2- 102). This information is of tactical value only if
the platoon processes and evacuates detainees and materiel to the rear quickly. In all
tactical situations , the platoon will have specific procedures and guidelines for
processing detainees and captured materiel.
4-49. As a matter of policy , all detainees are treated as enemy prisoners of war until
their appropriate legal status is determined by a competent authority according to the
criteria enumerated in the Geneva Convention Relatives to the Treatment of Prisoners
of War. However, as a practical matter, when a platoon captures enemy personnel, they
must provide the initial processing and holding for detainees. Detainee processing is a
resource-intensive and politically sensitive operation requiring detailed training ,
guidance, and supervision.
4-50. All detainees immediately shall be given humanitarian care and treatment. U.S.
Armed Forces never will torture , maltreat, or purposely place detained persons in
positions of danger. There is never a military necessity exception to violate these
principles.
4-51. Soldiers must process detainees using the “search, silence, segregate, speed,
safeguard, and tag” (5 Ss and T) technique. The steps are as follows:
 Search. Neutralize a detainee and confiscate weapons, personal items, and
items
 of potential intelligence or evidentiary value.
 Silence. Prevent detainees from communicating with one another or making
audible
 clamor. Silence uncooperative detainees by muffling them with a
soft
, clean cloth tied  around their mouths and fastened at the backs of their
heads.
 Do not use duct tape or other adhesives, place a cloth or objects inside
the
 mouth, or  apply physical force to silence detainees.
 Segregate.
 Segregate detainees according to policy and  SOPs. (Segregation
requirements
 differ from operation to operation.) The ability to segregate
detainees
 may be limited by the availability  of manpower and resources at
the point of contact. At a min imum, try to segregate  detainees by grade,
sex
, age (keeping adults from juveniles and small children with mothers), and
s
ecurity risk. Military intelligence and military police personnel can
provide
 addition al guidance and support in determining the appropriate
segregation
 criteria.
 Safeguard. Pro tect detainees and ensure the custody and integrity of all
confiscated
 items. Soldiers must safeguard detainees from combat risk, harm
caused by other detainees, and improper treatment or care. Report all injuries.
Correct
 and repo rt violations of U.S. military policy that occur while
safeguarding
 detainees. Acts, omissions , or both that constitute inhumane
+