Chapter 4 
4-32 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
Fix the Enemy 
4-83. Once contact is made, security forces and main body forces brings overwhelming
fires onto the enemy to prevent the enemy, for example, from conducting a withdrawal,
spoiling attack, or organizing a defense. Lead elements maneuver as quickly as possible
to find gaps — areas free of obstacles that enable forces to maneuver in a tactical
formation (FM 3 -90)— in the enemy’ s defense or where to position an attack on an
assailable flank of the enemy. While assessing the situation the platoon leader continues
to gather as much information as possible about the enemy’ s dispositions , strengths,
capabilities, and intentions. As more information becomes available , lead elements and
the main body attack to destroy or disrupt enemy command and control centers , fire
control nodes, and communication nets.
4-84. The security force leader, (for example, the platoon leader), initiates the platoon’s
maneuver at a tempo the enemy cannot match , since success in a meeting engagement
(see paragraph 4 -72) depends upon actions on contact. The security force , in this case
the platoon, does not allow the enemy to maneuver against the protected main body of
the company. The organization, size, and combat power of a security force are major
factors determining the size of the enemy force it can defeat without deploying the main
body. The techniques the security force leader employs to fix—a tactical mission task in
which a unit prevents the enemy from moving from a specific location for a specific
period (FM 3- 90)—the enemy when both forces are moving are different from those
employed when the enemy force is stationary during the meeting engagement. In both
situations, when the security force cannot overrun the enemy by conducting a hasty
operation, (for example, a frontal a ttack [see paragraph 4 -14]), a portion of the main
body is deployed. When this occurs , the unit is no longer conducting m ovement to
contact but an attack. (See section IV for additional information on hasty versus
deliberate operations and the attack.)
Finish the Enemy 
4-85. If the security force, (for example, the platoon), cannot overrun the enemy with a
frontal attack or by attacking an assailable flank of the enemy, the security force leader
then fixes the enemy , if possible. The main body commander then quickly maneuvers
units of the main body to conduct an attack (for example, an attack on an assailable
flank) that overwhelms the enemy force before it can react or be reinforced. The main
body commander attempts to defeat the enemy in detail while still maintaining the
momentum of the advance. Defeat in detail is concentrating overwhelming combat
power against separate parts of a force rather than defeating the entire force at once
(ADP 3-90). Defeat in detail can occur sequentially or separately. It may finish during
follow through. After an attack , the main body resumes the movement to contact and
establishes another lead element (security force) moving ahead of the main body along
the direction of attack or to the next march objective. If the enemy is not defeated  in
detail, the commander has two  main options: bypass or transition to a more deliberate
operation (for example, to attack or defend).
4-86. Once the forward security element, (for example, the platoon), commits to fixing
the enemy main body units deploy rapidly to the vicinity of the contact. The main body