Chapter 4 
4-34 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
through the deliberate synchronization and employment of the combined arms team. 
Variations of an attack are ambush, counterattack, raid, and spoiling attack. 
HASTY VERSUS DELIBERATE OPERATIONS 
4-90. The primary difference between a deliberate operation and hasty operation is the
extent of planning and preparation the attacking force conducts. A deliberate operation
is an operation in which the tactical situation allows the development and coordination
of detailed plans , including multiple branches and sequels (ADP 3- 90). A
hasty operation is an operation in which a commander directs immediately available
forces, using fragmentary orders , to perform tasks with minimal preparation, trading
planning and preparation time for speed of execution (ADP 3- 90). At one end of the
continuum, an Infantry unit launches a hasty operation as a continuation of an
engagement that exploits a combat power advantage and preempts enemy actions. At
the other end, an Infantry unit conducts a deliberate operation from a reserve position or
TAA with detailed knowledg e of the enemy , a task organization designed specifically
for attacking, and a fully rehearsed plan. Most attacks fall somewhere between the two
extremes.
4-91. A deliberate operation normally is conducted when enemy positions are too strong 
to be overcome by a hasty operation. It is a fully synchronized operation employing
every available asset against the enemy defense and is  characterized by a high volume
of planned fires , use of major supporting attacks , forward positioning of the resources
needed to maintain momentum, and operations throughout the depth of enemy positions. 
Deliberate operations follow a preparatory period that includes planning, reconnaissance
and surveillance, coordination, positioning of follow-on forces and reserve, preparation
of troops and equipment, rehearsals, and operational refinement.
4-92. A hasty operation is conducted during movement to contact , as part of a defense,
or when the enemy is in a vulnerable position and can be defeated quickly with available
resources. This type of operation may cause the attacking force to lose a degree of
synchronization. To minimize this risk, the leader maximizes use of standard formations
and well-rehearsed, thoroughly understood battle drills and SOPs. A hasty operation is
often the preferred option during continuous operations, enabling the leader to maintain
momentum while denying the enemy time for defense preparations.
ORGANIZATION OF FORCES 
4-93. The Infantry rifle platoon normally conducts an attack as part of a company in an
independent operation or as part of the company within a battalion operation. Once the
scheme of maneuver is determined, the company commander (when the platoon operates 
within company) task-organizes the force to ensure platoons have enough combat power 
to accomplish their assign missions. The company commander normally organizes a
main body and reserve (a security force, main body, and reserve is normally established
during a ba ttalion or higher echelon attack) for the attack , which are all supported by
some type of sustainment organization (for example , company or field trains  [see
paragraphs 8- 22 to 8- 25]). The commander and subordinate platoon leaders should
complete all changes in task organization on time to allow units to conduct rehearsals