Chapter 4 
4-30 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
4-77. The movement to contact usually starts from a n LD at the time specified in the
OPORD. The platoon leader controls the operation by using phase lines, contact points,
and checkpoints as required. The platoon leader may control the depth of the movement
to contact by using an LOA or a forward boundary. One or more objectives to limit the
extent of the movement to contact and orient the force may be established. These control
measures along with mission orders, coupled with battle drills and formation discipline,
synchronize the movement to contact. When an axis of advance is used, for example, in
limited visibility, the risk of enemy forces outside the axis not being detected, and thus
being inadvertently bypassed must be understood. The platoon leader plans for the array
and disposition of forces (for example, a hasty defense) when contact with the enemy is
not made, or at the end of the movement to contact.  (See ATP 3-21.10 for additional
information.)
PREPARE 
4-78. During preparation, the platoon leader and subordinate leaders must receive the
most current information from organic and higher echelon information collection assets.
The company commander must ensure that FRAGORDs  are published and that plans
are updated to reflect any changes to the platoon ’s mission. The platoon leader must
ensure subordinates understand the company commander ’s intent and concept of
operations and the platoon’s concept of operations and platoon’ s intent, in addition to
their individual missions even as new information becomes available. The platoon leader 
uses confirmation briefs , backbriefs, and rehearsals to ensure missions are understood
and all actions are integrated and synchronized. Simple plans that are flexible and
rehearsed repetitively against various enemy conditions and that rely on established
tactical standard operating procedures (SOPs) are essential to success.
4-79. Subordinate unit preparations are reviewed to ensure they are consistent with the
platoon leader ’s intent and concept of operations. Subordinate rehearsals should
emphasize movement through danger areas , actions on contact , passage of lines , and
transitions. The platoon leader and subordinate leaders ensure subordinate units (to
include attachments) understand assigned missions during movement and maneuver
options during execution. Plans are war-gamed and rehearsed against enemy COAs that
would cause the platoon and/or squads to execute various maneuver options at different
times and locations. The goal is to rehearse situations that may arise during execution to
promote flexibility while reinforcing the platoon leader’s intent.
4-80. The platoon leader seeks to rehearse the operation from initiation to occupation
of the final march objective or LOA. Rehearsals include decision points and actions
taken upon each decision. Often , the platoon leader prioritizes maneuver options and
enemy COAs to be rehearsed based on the time available. The rehearsal focuses on
locating the enemy, developing the situation, executing transition to a maneuver option,
exercising direct and indirect fire control measures , and exploiting success. The
rehearsal must consider the potential of encountering stationary or moving enemy
forces. (See chapter  2 for additional information on preparation activities, specifically
inspections.) Other actions to consider during rehearsals include—
 Lead element actions on contact.