Chapter 4 
4-28 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
respectively, conducting the advanced guard develops the situation and reports , 
generating a decision by the higher commander. The decision points determined during 
war gaming define the conditions in terms of the enemy and friendly strengths and 
dispositions that are likely to trigger the execution of each option. Likely locations of 
enemy engagements are based on known or suspected enemy locations. The higher 
commander states the bypass criteria for the advance guard recognizing the loss of 
tempo that is created by the lead element fighting every small enemy force it encounters. 
Bypass criteria are measures established by higher echelon headquarters that specify the 
conditions and size under which enemy units and contact may be avoided (FM 3- 90). 
Normally, the higher commander makes the final decision for execution of an option 
based on the progress of the initial engagement of the advance guard. The movement to 
contact generally ends with the commitment of the main body. (See ATP 3- 21.10 for 
additional information.) 
OPERATIONS PROCESS 
4-70. In addition to the fundamentals of the operations process described in ADP 5-0,
when planning and preparing for a movement to contact the platoon leader and
subordinate leaders within the platoon recognize complexity; balance resources ,
capabilities, and activities; recognize planning horizons ; and avoid pitfalls throughout
the operations process.
Note. The Army ’s  framework for exercising command and control is the 
operations process (plan, prepare, execute, and assess). See ADP 5-0 and FM 5-0 
for additional information. 
PLAN 
4-71. As in any type of operation, the platoon leader plans to focus operations on finding 
the enemy and then delaying, disrupting, and destroying each enemy force as much as
possible before direct -fire range. During troop leading procedures (TLP) , the platoon
leader analyzes the terrain to include enemy air avenues of approach and the enemy ’s
most dangerous COA as determined in the war -gaming portion of the TLP. (See
chapter 2 for additional  information on TLP.) Due to the uncertainty of the enemy’ s
precise location , the analysis during TLP may consist of multiple contingencies and
branch plans. Because of the platoon’ s vulnerability, by the nature of a movement to
contact, the enemy must not be underestimated.
4-72. The plan for the movement to contact addresses not only actions anticipated by
the platoon leader based on available intelligence products and assessments, but also the
conduct of meeting engagements —combat action that occurs when a moving force
engages an enemy at an unexpected time and place (FM 3-90)—at anticipated times and
locations where they might occur. The platoon leader enhances platoon security through
a thorough analysis of the enemy as part of step 3 of TLP (make a tentative plan ). The
interpretation of the intelligence preparation of the operational environment  (known as
IPOE) products provided by the battalion through the company, and on -going