Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-29
understanding of the company commander ’s visualization of the enemy and indicating 
danger areas where the platoon is most likely to make contact shapes the outcome of the 
enemy analysis. In analyzing the enemy , the platoon leader must understand the IP OE. 
Although the platoon leader does prepare IP OE products for use in preparation of 
analysis, and orders, the leader does not prepare individual products for subordinates. 
The platoon leader must be able to use the products of the battalion’ s IPOE effectively 
during mission analysis and be able to inform subordinates based on the compilation of 
platoon and higher IPOE products. 
4-73. During the mission analysis conducted during s tep 3 of TLP , consideration of
terrain and weather help to identify potential danger areas that are likely enemy
defensive locations , engagement areas, observation posts , and obstacles. Fire support
plans target potential danger areas, and they become on-order targets placed into effect
and cancelled as the lead element can confirm or deny enemy presence. Air -ground
operations enable fire superiority when organized correctly to fire immediate
suppression missions to help maneuver forces get within direct-fire range of the enemy.
The platoon movement to contact order must address coverage of these danger areas not
only based on actions anticipated but also on available intelligence  products and
assessments.
4-74. Lead elements of the movement to contact should have sufficient uncommitted
forces to develop the situation without requiring the deployment of the main body in
most cases. The platoon leader can rely on fire support assets to weight lead element
combat power , but still provides the lead element with the combat multipliers (for
example, internal to the platoon —a machine gun team , external to the platoon —
company mortars , and/or external to the company—combat engineers) they need to
accomplish their mission. The frontage assigned to the platoon and delegated to lead
elements in a movement to contact must allow them to apply sufficient combat power
to maintain the momentum of the operation. The frontage should also provide for
efficient movement of the force.
4-75. Unless there is a specific need to designate a main effort , the platoon leader may
choose to retain control of any attached or organic assets. In this case, the platoon leader 
would designate a main effort and weight it accordingly upon contact with the enemy.
Bypass criteria, which are measures during the conduct of a movement to contact , may
be established by higher headquarters that specify the conditions and size under which
enemy units and contact may be avoided. Bypass criteria are clearly stated by the higher
commander, and dependent on the mission variables of METT-TC (I). Criteria may also
include maneuver around an obstacle or position to maintain the momentum of the
operation.
4-76. A platoon leader uses the minimal number and type of control measures possible
in a movement to contact because of the uncertain enemy situation. Control measures
from higher may include designation of a platoon AO with left , right, front, and rear
boundaries, or a separate AO bounded by a continuous boundary (noncontiguous
operations). Boundaries are used to separate elements and clearly establish
responsibilities between different elements. The platoon leader may further divide the
AO into subordinate unit AO to facilitate subordinate unit actions.