Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-5
FORMS OF MANEUVER 
4-13. Forms of maneuver are distinct tactical combinations of fire and movement with
a unique set of doctrinal characteristics that differ primarily in the relationship between
the maneuvering force and the enemy (ADP 3-90). Leaders select the form of maneuver
based on their analysis of the mission variables of METT-TC (I) mission, enemy, terrain
and weather , troops and support available , time available , civil considerations , and
informational consideration s. Leaders then synchronize the contributions of all
warfighting functions to the selected form of maneuver. A platoon operation may
contain several forms of offensive maneuver , such as a frontal attack  to clear enemy
security forces prior to establishing a support  by fire position , followed by an
envelopment focused on attacking an assailable flank —a flank exposed to attack or
envelopment (ADP 3-90)—to avoid the enemy’ s strength to the front of an objective. A
form of maneuver can also be used in the defense (see chapter 5). For example, in an
area defense or mobile defense the counterattacking force or striking force, respectively,
conducts an envelopment to destroy the enemy. While Infantry platoons and squads do
not have the combat power to conduct all forms of maneuver on their  own, they will
participate as part of a larger organization. The five forms of maneuver are —
 Frontal attack.
 Envelopment.
 Infiltration.
 Turning movement.
 Penetration.
FRONTAL ATTACK 
4-14. A frontal attack is a form of maneuver in which an attacking force seeks to destroy 
a weaker enemy force or fix a larger enemy force in place over a broad front (FM 3-90).
The frontal attack is usually the least desirable form of maneuver because it exposes the
majority of the offensive force to the concentrated fires of the defender. The Infantry
rifle platoon normally conducts a frontal attack  as part of a larger operation against a
stationary or moving enemy force. (See figure 4-1 on page 4-6.) Unless frontal attacks
are executed with overwhelming and well -synchronized speed and strength against a
weaker enemy, they are seldom decisive. The frontal attack  may be appropriate in an
attack (see section VI) or meeting engagement (see section III) where speed and
simplicity are paramount to maintain tempo and , ultimately, the initiative or in a
supporting effort to fix an enemy force.