Chapter 4 
4-4 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
MOVEMENT TO CONTACT 
4-8. Movement to contact  is a type of offensive operation designed to establish or
regain contact to develop the situation (FM 3-90). The goal of a movement to contact is
to make initial contact with the  smallest friendly force possible , consistent with
protecting the force while retaining enough combat power to develop the situation and
mitigate the associated risk. The unit conducts a movement to contact when the enemy
situation is vague or not specific enough to conduct an attack. A movement to contact
creates favorable conditions for subsequent tactical actions. Once the platoon makes
contact with the enemy force , the leader h as five options: attack (platoon assault) ,
defend, bypass, delay, or withdraw. Subordinate variations of a movement to contact
include search and attack , and cordon and search operations. (See section III of this
chapter for additional information.)
ATTACK 
4-9. An attack is a type of offensive operation that defeats enemy forces, seizes terrain,
or secures terrain  (FM 3-90). An attack differs from a movement to contact because
enemy main body dispositions are at least partially known, allowing the leader to
achieve greater synchronization. This enables more effective massing of an attacking
forces’ combat powe r than in a movement to contact. The attack can be hasty or
deliberate depending upon the time available for assessing the situation, planning, and
preparing. (See section IV of this chapter for additional information.)
4-10. Variations of the attack are ambush , counterattack, raid, and spoiling attack (see
section IV of this chapter) . The platoon leader’s intent and the mission variables guide
which of these variations of attack to employ. Units conduct each of these variations ,
except for a raid, as either a hasty or a deliberate operation. (See chapter 7 for additional
information on the ambush and raid.)
EXPLOITATION 
4-11. An exploitation is a type of offensive operation following a successful attack to
disorganize the enemy in depth ( FM 3-90). While Infantry platoons and squads might
be part of a higher echelon exploitation as a fixing or striking force , they will not plan
or execute one on their own. (See ATP 3-21.20 for additional information.)
PURSUIT 
4-12. A pursuit is a type of offensive operation to catch or cut off a disorganized hostile
force attempting to escape, with the aim of destroying it ( FM 3- 90). There are two
variations of the pursuit: frontal and combination. A pursuit normally follows a
successful exploitation but can follow any type of offensive operation if the enemy
resistance breaks down and they begin fleeing the battlefield. Infant ry platoons and
squads do not plan pursuits at their levels and are unlikely to participate in a higher
echelon pursuit due to a lack of mobility. (See ATP 3-21.20 for additional information.)