Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-25
MOVEMENT AFTER THE LINE OF DEPARTURE 
4-65. A movement to contact usually starts from a line of departure —in land warfare,
a line designated to coordinate the departure of attack elements (JP 3 -31)—at the time
specified in the OPORD or fragmentary order (FRAGORD). The platoon leader controls 
the movement to contact of the platoon by using phase lines , contact points , and
checkpoints as required and controls the depth of the movement to contact by using a n
LOA or a forward boundary. March objectives (one or more) may be used to limit the
extent of the movement to contact and orient the force. This movement is of ten
terrain-oriented and used only to guide the force. Although a movement to contact may
result in taking a terrain objective , the primary focus should be on the enemy force.
When the platoon leader has enough information to locate significant enemy forces, the
leader should plan another type of offensive action.
4-66. Platoon leaders plan the approach for the movement to contact , ensuring
synchronization, security, speed, and flexibility by selecting the platoon ’s routes ,
movement formation , and movement technique. Leaders must be prepared to make
contact with the enemy. They must plan accordingly to reinforce the company
commander’s needs for synchronization , security, speed, and flexibility. During the
movement to contact, the platoon leader may exercise disciplined initiative and alter the
platoon’s movement formation and movement technique or speed to maintain
synchronization with the other platoons and squads. This retains flexibility for the
company commander.
INITIAL ENGAGEMENT 
4-67. Usually within the platoon ’s movement technique (see paragraph s 3-85 to 3-97)
during a movement to contact, the lead element, (usually a fire team or rifle squad) will
make the initial contact with the enemy. Upon making contact, the lead element deploys
and report, and evaluated and develops the situation. The lead element determines the
size and activity of the enemy force and avoids being fixed or destroyed. If possible, the
lead element avoids detection. When the enemy is moving, the lead element determines
the direction of movement and the size and composition of the force. After evaluating
and developing the situation, the element leader proposes a COA to use against the
enemy. The element leader or attached FO can disrupt lead enemy forces by placing
indirect fires on the enemy forces. Speed of selecting a COA  and execution is critical
when the enemy is moving. When the enemy is stationary, the lead element determines
if the enemy is occupying prepared positions and is reinforced by obstacles and
minefields. The lead element tries to identify any crew-served weapon or antitank (AT)
weapon positions, the enemy’s flanks, and gaps in positions. The lead element passes
this combat information and proposed COA to the platoon leader to assess the
information and further develop the situation, if required. Developing the situation and
achieving an understanding of the enemy force is critical to deciding how to continue
the engagement.
4-68. When the rifle platoon (or the platoon is the lead element of a company advance
guard) is committed as the advance guard, the squad (see figure 4 -6 on page 4-27), or
platoon (see figure 4 -7 on page 4- 40) maneuvers to overpower and destroy a small