Chapter 4 
4-60 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
4-167. The objective of a spoiling attack is to disrupt the enemy’s offensive capabilities 
and timelines while destroying targeted enemy personnel and equipment , not to se ize
terrain and other physical objectives. Two conditions must be met to conduct a
survivable spoiling attack:
 The spoiling attack ’s objective must be obtainable before the enemy  is able
to respond to the attack in a synchronized and coordinated manner.
 The force conducting the spoiling attack must be prevented from becoming
over extended, fixed, or having insufficient mobility to break contact and /or
withdraw.
4-168. Infantry forces conduct a spoiling attack whenever possible during friendly
defensive missions to strike a n enemy force while it is in a  TAA or attack position(s)
preparing for its own offensive mission or is stopped temporarily. For example , a
platoon may conduct an infiltration behind enemy lines to impair (platoon ambush or
raid) an enemy’s ability to organize for its operation.
OPERATIONS DURING LIMITED VISIBILITY 
4-169. Effective use of advanced optical sights and equipment during limited visibility
attacks enhances the ability of squads and platoons to achieve surprise , hit targets, and
cause panic in a lesser -equipped enemy. Advanced optics and equipment allow the
Infantry Soldier to see farther and with greater clarity.
USE OF ILLUMINATION, NIGHT VISION, AND INFRARED LASERS 
4-170. Night vision devices provide good visibility in all but pitch- black conditions
but do somewhat limit the Soldier ’s field of view. Leaders must understand that night
vision devices emit light at the eyecups , and many have an infrared illuminator which
can emit light that is visible to a peer threat. Night vision devices are also visible to other
night vision devices. I nfantry platoons have  n ight vision equipment mounted on the
helmet of each Soldier  and w eapon-mounted and handheld devices to identify and
designate targets.
4-171. Infantry leaders and Soldiers have an increased ability to designate and control
fires during limited visibility. There are three types of advanced optics and equipment
for use in fire control:
 Target designators. Leaders can designate targets with greater precision using 
infrared laser pointers  to designate targets and sectors of fire and to
concentrate fire. The leader lazes a target for Soldiers to place their fires. The
Soldiers then use their weapon’s aiming lights to engage the target.
 Aiming lights. Soldiers with aiming lights have greater accuracy of fires
during limited visibility. Each Soldier in the Infantry platoon is equipped with 
an aiming light for the individual weapon. Aiming lights work with the
individual Soldier’s helmet-mounted night vision goggles. It puts an infrared
light on the target at the point of aim.
 Target illuminators. Leaders can designate larger targets using target
illuminators. Target illuminators are essentially infrared light sources that