Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-19
treatment are violations of the law of war and , as such, must be corrected 
immediately. Simply reporting violations is insufficient. If a violation is 
ongoing, a Soldier has an obligation to stop the violation and report it. 
 Speed to a safe area/rear. Quickly move detainees from the continuing risks
associated with other combatants or sympathizers who still may be in the area 
of capture. If there are more detainees than the Soldiers can control , call for
additional support , search the detainees , and hold them in place until
reinforcements arrive. Evacuate detainees from the battlefield to a holding
area or facility as soon as possible. Transfer captured documents and other
property to the forces assuming responsibility of the detainees.
 Tag. Ensure that each detainee is tagged using DD Form 2745
(Enemy Prisoner of War [EPW] Capture Tag).  Confiscated equipment ,
personal items , and evidence will be linked to the detainee using the
DD Form 2745 number. When a DA Form 4137 (Evidence/Property Custody
Document) is used to document confiscated items , it will be linked to the
detainee by annotating the DD Form 2745 control number on the form or by
field expedient means. Field expedient means should include tagging with
date and time of capture, location of capture , capturing unit , and
circumstances of capture. There are three parts to this form. DD Form 2745 ,
Unit Record Card , Part B , is the unit record copy. DD Form 2745,
Document/Special Equipment Weapons Card , Part C , is for detainee
confiscated property. Tagging is critical. If it does not happen, the ability of
higher headquarters to obtain pertinent tactical information quickly is
reduced greatly.
4-52. Detainees should be evacuated as soon as is practical to the higher echelon
detainee collection point. Military police teams , when attached, can assist in the rapid
evacuation of detainees to these collection points. Tactical questioning of detainees is
allowed relative to collection of commander ’s critical information requirements
(CCIRs). However, detainees must always be treated in accordance with Department of
Defense ( DOD) programs and policies that ensure compliance with the laws of the
United States; the law of war, including the Geneva Conventions, and humane treatment
during all intelligence interrogations, detainee debriefings, or tactical questioning. (See
DODD 2310.01E, DODD 3115.09, and DODD 2311.01.)
4-53. Soldiers capturing equipment , documents, and detainees should tag them (using
the DD Form 2745, Part A), take digital pictures , and report the capture immediately.
Detainees are allowed to keep individual protective equipment such as a protective
mask. (See FM 3-63 for additional information.)
4-54. The platoon leader protects subordinate squads to deny the enemy the capability
to interfere with their ongoing operations. Protection also meets the leader’ s legal and
moral obligations to the organization ’s Soldiers. Additional protection tasks (see
ATP 3-21.10 for additional information) conducted by the platoon in the offense may
include: