Chapter 4 
4-20 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
 Employ safety techniques (including fratricide —the unintentional killing or
wounding of friendly or neutral personnel by friendly firepower
[ADP 3-37]—avoidance).
 Implement operations security —a capability that identifies and controls
critical information, indicators of friendly force actions attendant to military
operations, and incorporates countermeasures to reduce the risk of an
adversary exploiting vulnerabilities (JP 3-13.3).
 Implement physical security—that part of security concerned with physical
measures designed to safeguard personnel; to prevent unauthorized access to
equipment, installations, material, and documents ; and to safeguard them
against espionage, sabotage, damage, and theft (JP 3-0)—procedures.
SECTION III – MOVEMENT TO CONTACT 
4-55. Movement to contact is a type of offensive operation designed to develop the
situation and establish or regain contact. It ends when enemy contact is made. The
platoon usually conducts movement to contact as part of an Infantry rifle company or
larger elem ent. Based upon the mission variables of METT-TC (I), the platoon may
conduct the operation independently. Search and attack, and cordon and search are
variations of a movement to contact (see note below).
Note. In an environment focused on stability operations ,
  the Infantry platoon 
typically operates under more restrictive rules of engagement (ROE ) and  will 
typically conduct either a cordon and search or search and attack when 
conducting a movement to contact. Cordon and search  is a variation of 
movement to contact where a friendly force isolates and searches a target area 
(FM 3 -90). Search and attack  is variation of a movement to contact where a 
friendly force conducts coordinated attacks to defeat a distributed enemy force 
(FM 3-90). (See ATP 3 -21.10 and ATP 3- 21.20 for additional  information on 
each variation.) 
CONDUCT OF A MOVEMENT TO CONTACT 
4-56. Purposeful and aggressive movement , decentralized control , and hasty
deployment of formations from the march to conduct offensive operations characterize
the movement to contact. The fundamentals of movement to contact—
 Focus all efforts on finding the enemy.
 Make initial contact with the smallest force possible , consistent with
protecting the force.
 Make initial contact with small, mobile, self-contained forces to avoid
decisive engagement of the main body on ground chosen by the enemy. This
allows the leader maximum flexibility to develop the situation.
 Task-organizes the force and uses movement formations to deploy and attack
rapidly in all directions.