Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-15
leader tries to determine the principal enemy heavy and light avenues of approach to the 
objective. The leader also tries to determine the most advantageous area from which 
enemy may defend, routes the enemy may use to conduct counterattacks , and other 
factors such as observation and field of fire, avenues of approach, key terrain, obstacles, 
and cover and concealment (OAKOC) (see paragraph  2-62). The attacking platoon 
continuously conducts information collection during the battle because it is unlikely the 
platoon leader has complete knowledge of the enemy’ s intentions and actual actions. 
(See chapter 2 section II for additional information.) 
FIRES 
4-35. Prior to movement, the platoon leader plans for fires throughout the depth of the
operation, specifically along the route to cover anticipated places of enemy contact ,
during actions on the objective , and during consolidate and reorganization activities .
These targets (for example, TRPs and final protective fires [FPFs]) are a product of the
platoon leader ’s analysis of the mission variables  of METT- TC (I) and must be
incorporated into the company’s fire support plan.
4-36. The platoon leader conducts fire support planning concurrently with the Infantry
rifle company and Infantry battalion. The Infantry brigade combat team (IBCT) and
Infantry battalion typically use top -down fire support planning , with bottom -up
refinement of plans. As part of the top -down fire planning system, the company
commander refines the fire support plan from higher headquarters to meet mission
requirements, ensuring these refinements are incorporated into the higher headquarters’
plan.
4-37. A clearly defined concept of fires enables the platoon leader and forward observer
(FO) to articulate precisely how they want indirect fires to affect the enemy during the
different phases of the operation. In turn, this allows the company fire support officer to
facilitate the development of fires supporting accomplishment of the company’s mission 
down to the squad level. (See appendix B for additional information.)
SUSTAINMENT 
4-38. The objective of sustainment in the offense is to assist the platoon in maintaining
the momentum. The platoon leader wants to take advantage of windows of opportunity
and launch offensive operations with minimum advance warning time. The p latoon
sergeant and squad leaders must anticipate these events and maintain flexibility to
support the offensive plan accordingly.
4-39. A key to an offense is the ability to  carry 72 hours of supplies specific to the
platoon’s assigned mission, and to anticipate the requirement for resupply , specifically
regarding ammunition, fuel, and water. This anticipation helps maintain the momentum
of attack by resupplying as far forward as possible. Leaders use throughput distribution,
and preplanned contingency resupply, preconfigured packages of essential items to help
maintain offensive momentum and tempo. (See chapter 8 for additional information and
ATP 3-21.10.)