Chapter 4 
4-46 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
Note. Subordinate company fire support officers develop quick- fire plans to 
support their respective commander ’s mission. In quick- fire planning the fire 
support officer assigns targets (and possibly a schedule of fires) to the most 
appropriate fire support means available to support the mission. In this type of 
fire support planning, the available time usually does not permit evaluation of 
targets on the target list and consolidation with targets from related fire support 
agencies. (See ATP 3-09.42 for additional information on quick-fire planning.) 
4-130. The platoon leader and subordinate leaders plan for sustainment to ensure the
platoon’s freedom of action and prolong endurance through unit trains (for example ,
company trains and battalion field trains). (See chapter 8 for additional  information on
unit sustainment operations during the attack.)
4-131. Protection increases a platoon ’s survivability and their ability to maintain
combat power. Planning for protection involves identifying enemy capabilities (for
example, fires, aviation, and CBRN) and the necessary actions to counter or mitigate
those threats. Emphasis on protection increases during preparation and continues
throughout execution. Protection is a continuing activity; it integrates all protection
capabilities to protect the force before, during, and after the attack. (See paragraphs 4-40
to 4-47 on the challenges to protect the force during the offense.)
PREPARE 
4-132. During preparation for the attack , the platoon leader and subordinate leaders
must continue to analyze the most current information from organic and higher echelon
information collection efforts. When possible , even in the most fluid of situations ,
attacks are best organized and coordinated in a currently established TAA, or one that is
hastily established due to a change of mission.
4-133. Unless already in a T AA or patrol base, the attacking platoon moves into one
to prepare for future operations. The unit moves with as much secrecy as possible ,
normally at night and along routes preventing or degrading the enemy’ s capabilities to
visually observe or otherwise detect the movement. It avoids congesting its T AA or
patrol base and occupies it for the minimal possible time. While in the T AA or patrol
base, the platoon is responsible for its own protection activities , such as local security
and electromagnetic emissions control and masking. (See chapter 7 for additional
information on establishing a patrol base.)
4-134. The platoon leader and subordinate leaders continue their TLP and priorities of
work to the extent the situation and mission allow before moving towards their attack
position(s) and/or LD and if established their LC. These preparations include but are not
necessarily limited to:
 Protecting the force.
 Conducting task organization.
 Performing reconnaissance.
 Refining the plan.