Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-35
with their attached and supporting elements. Based upon METT-TC (I), the platoon may 
conduct the attack (platoon assault) independently. As an example , the platoon may 
conduct an attack to seize an assault objective, key terrain , or other enemy position 
dependent on the size of the enemy force and/or terrain. (See ATP 3 -21.10 and 
ATP 3-21.20 for additional information on  an attack at the company and battalion 
echelons.) 
SECURITY FORCES 
4-94. The Infantry rifle platoon leader , as well as the Infantry rifle company
commander, do not generally designate dedicated security forces for independent
operations conducting an attack. During a platoon’ s movement along its direction of
attack, platoon leaders are responsible for 360- degree security , for ensuring each
subordinate unit’s sectors of fire are mutually supporting, and for being able to transition 
the platoon rapidly upon contact with the enemy. Platoon leaders exercise command and
control primarily through their subordinate leaders and move in the formation where
they can best achieve this.
4-95. Along the platoon’s direction of attack , squad leaders and team leaders execute
movement formations and movement techniques based on the platoon leader’s guidance. 
They adjust their formations and techniques as necessary while moving (see chapter 3).
This determination is a result of the platoon’ s mission , the nature of the threat , the
closeness of terrain, and visibility. Subordinate elements perform their required actions,
through training before combat and rehearsals during combat.
4-96. When the platoon is designated as a security force (flank and/or rear) within the
Infantry battalion’s organization of forces for the attack , under normal circumstances ,
the commander resources dedicated security forces during an attack only if the attack
uncovers one or more flanks , or the rear of the attacking force as it advances. In this
case, the commander designates a flank or rear security force and assigns it a guard or
screen mission, depending on METT-TC (I).
Note. N ormally an attacking unit does not need extensive forward security forces 
as most attacks are launched from positions in contact with the enemy, which 
reduces the usefulness of a separate forward security force. The exception occurs 
when the attacking unit is transitioning from defense to offense  and had 
previously established a security area as part of the defense. 
MAIN BODY 
4-97. During an attack (platoon assault , see figure 4 -7 on page 4- 40), conducted
independently of the company, the platoon leader establishes a main effort and
supporting effort within the platoon. The main effort is a designated subordinate unit
whose mission at a given point in time is most critical to overall mission success
(ADP 3-0). The platoon leader usually weights the main effort with the preponderance
of platoon’s combat power , or the operation is designed where the effort is singularly
focused. Designating a main effort temporarily prioritizes resource allocation. The