Chapter 4 
4-12 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
reconnaissance assets might be used to observe an AO not assigned to a subordinate  
unit, while platoons or companies provide their own reconnaissance in the ir AO. This 
technique, along with target reference points (TRPs) , help avoid fratricide in 
noncontiguous operations . Using a  TRP facilitates the responsiveness of fixing and 
finishing elements once a reconnaissance element detects the enemy. Objectives and 
checkpoints guide the movement of subordinates and help leaders control their 
organizations. Contact points help coordination among the unit operating in adjacent 
areas. 
4-25. When looking for terrain features to use as control measures , leaders consider
three types: contiguous ; point; and area. Contiguous featur es follow major natural and
man-made features such as ridgelines , valleys, trails, streams, power lines, and streets.
Point features can be identified by a specific feature or a grid coordinate including,
hilltops and prominent buildings. Area features are significantly larger than point
features and require a combination of grid coordinates and terrain orientation.
4-26. A zone is an operational area assigned to a unit in the offense that only has rear
and lateral boundaries (FM 3-0). The non-bounded side of a zone is open towards enemy 
forces. A higher echelon headquarters uses fire support coordination and maneuver
control measures such as a n LOA and a coordinated fire line to synchronize its deep
operations with those of a subordinate unit. Zones allow higher headquarters to adjust
deep operations without having to change unit boundaries. This gives greater flexibility
to the higher headquarters for controlling deep operations, allowing subordinate units to
focus on close and rear operations. A zone is best for front -line units executing
high-tempo offensive operations characterized by direct fire contact with the enemy and
a fluid FLOT. Units treat everything behind the FLOT  as an AO. Zone can be further
subdivided as needed. (See FM 3 -90 appendix A for additional  information on zones.)
(See ATP 3-21.10 and FM 3-96 for additional information.)
TACTICAL FRAMEWORK OF THE OFFENSE 
4-27. Offensive operations are typically executed in a four-step tactical framework. (See 
paragraphs 4-81 to 4-87 and 4-137 to 4-154.) The framework is for discussion purposes
only and is not the only way of executing  offensive operations. These steps  overlap
during the conduct of the offense. Normally the first t wo steps are supporting efforts ,
while the finish step is the main effort. Follow through is usually a sequel or branch to
the plan based upon the situation. The four-step tactical framework of the offense during 
execution is—
 Find the enemy. Intel drives fires and maneuver.
 Fix the enemy. Prevent repositioning or reinforcement making them easier to
destroy.
 Finish the enemy. Mass available combat power to accomplish the mission.
 Follow through. Defeat in detail, consolidate, reorganize, and transition.