Chapter 4 
4-58 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
 Is the threat assessment made during planning and preparation still correct ,
for example:
 Is the enemy stronger or weaker than templated?
 Are preparatory fires adequate?
 Are enemy locations templated correctly?
 Are there still local enemy remnants or unengaged counterattacking
forces?
 Is there an ability, in terms of opportunity, to seize or regain the initiative, for
example:
 Is there terrain to gain a better position of advantage over the enemy?
 Is there an opportunity to catch the enemy by surprise or prior to the
employment of enemy forces?
 Are there unplanned but now -identified enemy reinforcements or
capabilities on the way to, or on the objective that need to be engaged?
VARIATIONS OF THE ATTACK 
4-159. Variations of the attack are ambush , counterattack, raid, and spoiling attack.
(See ATP 3-21.10 for additional information.) The commander’s intent and analysis of
the mission variables of METT -TC (I) determines which variation of the attack to
employ. Each variation of attack, except for a raid, can be conducted as either a hasty or
a deliberate operation. As variations of an attack , they share many of the planning ,
preparation, and execution considerations of attack.
AMBUSH 
4-160. An ambush is an a ttack by fire or other destructive means from concealed
positions on a moving or temporarily halted enemy. An ambush stops , denies, or
destroys enemy forces by maximizing the element of surprise. Ambushes can employ
direct fire systems as well as other destructive means , such as command -detonated
mines, indirect fires, and supporting nonlethal effects. They may include an assault to
close with and destroy enemy forces. In an ambush, ground objectives do not have to be
seized and held.
4-161. The three common forms of a small-unit ambush are point, area, and antiarmor
ambushes. In a point ambush , a unit deploys to attack a single kill zone. In an area
ambush, a unit deploys into two or more related point ambushes. Units smaller than a
platoon normally do not conduct an area ambush. In an antiarmor ambush, a unit focuses
on moving or temporarily halted enemy armored vehicles. (See chapter 7 for additional
information.)
COUNTERATTACK 
4-162. A counterattack is a variation of attack by a defending force against an
attacking enemy force (FM 3-90). (For example , within a company’s area defense, a
platoon or squad may conduct a counterattack from its subsequent battle position to