Chapter 4 
4-14 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
 Higher commander’s intent and scheme of maneuver.
 AO for use of each subordinate element with associated control graphics.
 Time the operation is to begin.
 Scheme of maneuver and leaders positioning that allows for timely decisions
and the application of judgement.
 Special tasks required to accomplish the mission.
 Risk acceptance.
 Options for accomplishing the mission.
MOVEMENT AND MANEUVER 
4-31. The platoon conducts tactical movement when contact with the enemy is possible
or anticipated. The platoon maintains integrity throughout the movement and plans for
enemy interference en route to or shortly after arrival at its destination. During tactical
movements, the platoon leader must be prepared to maneuver against an enemy force.
Once deployed in its assigned AO, the platoon moves using proper techniques for
assigned missions. When contact is made, fire and movement is executed.
4-32. The platoon leader ’s mission analysis helps to facilitate the decision on how to
move most effectively. When planning platoon movements , the platoon leader ensures
the unit is moving in a way that supports a rapid transition to maneuver. Platoon
movement should be as rapid as the terrain, mobility of the force , and enemy situation
permit while ensuring Soldiers arrive in a condition to accomplish their mission. The
ability to gain and maintain the initiative often depends on movement being undetected
by the enemy. The platoon depends heavily upon the terrain for protection from enemy
fire. Once contact with the enemy is made, squads and platoons execute the appropriate
actions on contact (see chapter 2), and leaders begin to maneuver their units.
4-33. The platoon leader conducts movement and maneuver to avoid enemy strengths
and create opportunities that increase the effects of combat power. Surprise is achieved
by making unexpected maneuvers , rapidly changing the tempo of ongoing operations ,
avoiding observation, and using deceptive techniques and procedures. The platoon
leader seeks to overwhelm the enemy with one or more unexpected actions before it has
time to react in an organized fashion. This occurs when the attacking force can engage
the defending enemy force from positions of advantage with respect to the enemy, such
as engaging from an assailable flank.
INTELLIGENCE 
4-34. The platoon leader uses threat event templates , the situation template (known as
SITEMP), the likely threat course of action (COA) , the most dangerous threat COA ,
civil consideration products , terrain analysis products, and other intelligence products
and assessments. During offensive operations , the evaluation of avenues of approach
leads to a recommendation of the best avenues of approach to a command’ s objective
and to the identification of avenues of approach available to the threat for counterattack,
withdrawal, or the movement of reinforcements or reserves. By studying the terrain, the