11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-1
Chapter 4 
Offense 
Platoon leaders and squad leaders must understand the principles 
and tactics, techniques, and procedures associated with the offense. 
They must comprehend their role when operating within a larger 
organization’s operations , and when operating independently. 
Leaders must recognize the complementary and reinforcing effects 
of other maneuver elements and supporting elements with their own 
capabilities and understand the impact of open or restrictive terrain 
on their operations. The primary purpose of the offense for the 
Infantry rifle platoon is to decisively defeat , destroy, or neutralize 
the enemy force , or to seize key terrain. This chapter covers the 
basic components during the conduct of the offense, common 
offensive planning considerations, movement to contact, and attack. 
SECTION I – CONDUCT OF THE OFFENSE 
4-1. Offensive action is the critical part of any engagement. Successful offensive
operations require units to seize, retain, and exploit the initiative to defeat—to render a
force incapable of achieving its objectives (ADP 3- 0)—the enemy. Even when
conducting primarily defensive operations, taking the initiative from the enemy requires
offensive operations that are force- or terrain-oriented. Force-oriented tasks focus on the
enemy while terrain -oriented tasks focus on seizing , retaining, and controlling terrain
and facilities. The tactical mission tasks, seize, retain, and control are defined as follows:
 Seize is a tactical mission task in which a unit takes possession of a designated 
area by using overwhelming force (FM 3-90).
 Retain is a tactical mission task in which a unit prevents enemy occupation
or use of terrain (FM 3-90).
 Control is a tactical mission task in which a unit maintains physical influence
over an assigned area (FM 3-90).
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE OFFENSE 
4-2. The offense is characterized by audacity, concentration, surprise, and tempo. The
ability to gain and maintain the initiative to defeat an enemy greatly depends upon the
proper application of the characteristics of the offense.  (See FM 3 -96 for additional
information.)