Chapter 4 
4-56 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
security elements on the objective , to a reorganization of the attacking force, to the 
organization and detailed improvement of positions for defensive missions.  
4-152. Consolidate consists of actions taken to secure the objective and defend against
an enemy counterattack. Platoon leaders use TLP to plan and prepare for this phase of
operation. They ensure the unit is ready to conduct the following actions (see
paragraph 4-116 for a further discussion) that usually are part of consolidate:
 Establish security beyond the objective by securing areas that may be the
source of enemy direct fires or enemy artillery observation.
 Prepare for and assist the passage of follow-on forces (if required).
 Continue to improve security by conducting other necessary defensive
actions. These defensive actions include engagement area development ,
direct fire planning, and battle position preparation.
 Adjust FPFs and register targets along likely mounted and dismounted
avenues of approach.
 Protect the obstacle reduction effort.
 Secure enemy detainees.
 Prepare for enemy counterattack.
4-153. Reorganization usually is conducted concurrently with consolidat e. It consists
of actions taken to prepare units for follow -on operations. As with consolidat e, unit
leaders plan and prepare for reorganization as they conduct TLP.  (See paragraph 4-118
for a further discussion.) Platoon leaders ensure the following actions are conducted:
 Provide essential medical treatment and evacuate casualties, as necessary.
 Treat and evacuate wounded detainees and process the remainder of
detainees.
 Cross-level personnel and adjust task organization as required to support the
next phase or mission.
 Conducts resupply operations, including rearming and refueling.
 Redistribute ammunition.
 Conduct required maintenance.
 Continue improvement of defensive positions, as necessary.
4-154. For all attacks, Infantry units should and must plan to exploit success. However,
at the conclusion of an engagement , the platoon leader may be forced to defend. For
short defenses , units make use of existing terrain to enhance their survivability. If a
longer defense is envisioned, engineer assets immediately should refocus their efforts
on providing survivability support (fighting positions and similar activities). Engineer
assets should do this even as they sustain mobility and integrate countermobility into the
planned defensive mission. The Infantry leader considers the higher commander ’s
concept of operations , friendly capabilities , and enemy situation when making the
decision to defend or continue the offense.