Chapter 4 
4-44 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
a hasty or deliberate operation. Though a platoon may be tasked to conduct a hasty attack 
as a continuation of an ongoing engagement , it is always best to plan and prepare for a 
deliberate attack from a TAA or reserve position. 
4-121. In addition to accomplishing the mission, the platoon leader ’s concept of
operations must contain provisions to exploit successes and all advantages that arise
during the operation. The platoon leader exploits success and maintains the advantage
by continually assessing the process throughout planning and preparation, and by
aggressively executing the plan, promoting subordinate leader initiative , and putting
subordinate units in a position of advantage. ( See ATP 3 -21.10 for additional
information.)
Note. The operations process (plan, p
 repare, execute, and assess) is the major 
command and control activities performed during combat operations. The 
operations process (specific to TLP) is a platoon leader -led activity. (See 
chapter 2 for additional information on TLP.) 
PLAN 
4-122. During the planning process , the platoon leader integrates the scheme of fires
with the scheme of maneuver . The scheme of fires  is the detailed , logical sequence of
targets and fire support events to find and engage targets to support the commander ’s
objectives (JP 3-09). The leader identifies the desired effect of fires on enemy weapon
systems, such as suppression or destruction, as part of developing the scheme of fires.
The scheme of fires identifies critical times and places where the platoon leader needs
the maximum effects from fire-support assets. Leaders combine movement with fires to
mass effects, achieve surprise, destroy enemy forces, and obtain decisive results.
4-123. The platoon leader assigns  subordinate squad leaders and attached element
leaders their missions and imposes only those control measures necessary to synchronize 
and maintain control over the operation. Using the enemy situational and weapons
templates, previously developed, the leader determines the probable LC and enemy
trigger lines (see paragraph 5 -208). As the leader arrays subordinate elements to shape
the battlefield, friendly weapon systems are matched against the enemy to determine the
PLD. Once th e leader determines the PLD , the leader establishes how long it takes
subordinates to move from the LD to the PLD and establish all necessary support by fire
positions. The leader establishes when and where the force must maneuver into enemy
direct-fire range.
4-124. The platoon leader seeks to surprise the enemy by choosing an unexpected
direction, time, type, or strength for attacking. Surprise delays enemy reactions ,
overloads and confuses enemy command and control , induces psychological shock in
the enemy, and reduces the coherence of the enemy ’s defensive operations. The leader
achieves tactical surprise by attacking in bad weather and over seemingly impassible
terrain, maintaining a high tempo, and employing sound operations security. The leader
may plan different  attack times for main and supporting efforts to mislead the enemy
and allow the shifting of supporting fires. However , simultaneous attacks provide a