Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-37
indirect fire support coordination measures. Between the PLD and objective , a final 
coordination line, assault positions, support by fire and attack by fire positions, and time 
of assault to better control the final stage of attack can be used. Beyond the objective , 
the Infantry leader can impose an LOA or forward boundary. ( See ATP 3 -21.10 for 
additional information.) 
SEQUENCE OF EVENTS, EXAMPLE 
4-103. An attack at the platoon level is normally conducted as part of a larger force
and is an offensive action characterized by close combat. Close combat  is warfare
carried out on land in a direct-fire fight, supported by direct and indirect fires and other
assets (ADP 3-0). The following sequence of events is typical of an attack, regardless of
echelon; however, specifics will vary due to the mission variables and the higher scheme 
of maneuver. Additionally, some elements may occur simultaneously. (See ATP 3-21.10
for additional information.) Events include:
 TAA.
 Reconnaissance and surveillance.
 Movement to the LD.
 Movement to the PLD.
 Actions on the objective (platoon assault).
 Follow through (consolidate, reorganization, and transition).
TACTICAL ASSEMBLY AREA 
4-104. The platoon leader and subordinate leaders within the TAA direct and supervise 
mission planning and preparation for the attack. Additional activities include
coordination, PCCs and PCIs, rehearsals, and sustainment preparations for the mission.
(See ATP 3-21.10 for additional information.)
RECONNAISSANCE AND SURVEILLANCE 
4-105. Higher echelon reconnaissance and surveillance collection efforts provide
combat information on the enemy situation and terrain in the platoon ’s AO. The
collection effort may begin prior to occupying the T AA and continues throughout the
operation. The platoon may still receive current reports as it occupies the assault
position. Reconnaissance and surveillance activities provide the platoon leader with the
information needed to plan, prepare, execute, and assess the mission. The situation and
available time may limit the ability to conduct reconnaissance and surveillance activities
prior to crossing the LD. Leaders balance the benefits of reconnaissance forces and
surveillance assets providing combat information with the level of risk involved with
them compromising the operation.
MOVEMENT TO THE LINE OF DEPARTURE 
4-106. When attacking from positions not in contact with the enemy, the platoon often
stages in a rear TAA or moves to an attack position behind friendly units in contact with