Chapter 4 
4-38 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
the enemy, then conducts passage of lines to begin the attack. When attacking from a 
position in direct contact, the LD may also be the line of contact , a general trace 
delineating the locations where friendly and enemy forces are engaged (ADP 3 -90). In 
certain circumstances , there may not be a n LD, for example, an operation in a 
noncontiguous assigned area. Additionally, commanders may designate PDs for their 
attacking units instead of an LD for units attacking on foot using infiltration and stealth. 
4-107. The tactical situation and order in which the platoon leader wants subordinate
elements to arrive at their attack position(s) (if necessary) and/or LD/PD govern the
march formation. The platoon leader typically executes a planned movement through a
start point(s), along a route(s) and through a release point(s), into an attack position(s)
(if necessary) short of the LD/PD after which the leader will deploy into the appropriate
movement formation and movement technique. The platoon leader develops an order of
movement and timeline (by squad) to the attack position and/or LD/PD . Lead elements
of the attacking force cross the LD /PD at the time specified in the OPORD  or
FRAGORD. Before movement , a small patrol from the platoon (see chapter 7) can be
tasked to reconnoiter and mark the route and check the time it takes to move to the
LD/PD. (See chapter 6 section III for additional information on the passage of lines prior 
to crossing the LD/PD.)
MOVEMENT TO THE PROBABLE LINE OF DEPLOYMENT 
4-108. The platoon moves rapidly through their attack position(s) and across the
LD/PD controlled by friendly forces. The platoon uses its designated attack position
only by exception, for example, to adjust the march timing of the unit ’s movement or
when the conditions required to ensure the success of the planned maneuver is not yet
established. The platoon should minimize the time it remains stationary in the attack
position. Generally , the platoon should initiate actions to protect itself and increase
survivability every 10 to 15 minutes. This includes such actions as deploying local
security, improving cover and concealment, and starting the construction of fighting and
survivability positions. The platoon leader considers the mission variables of
METT-TC (I) when choosing the actions within an attack position which best balances
firepower, tempo, security, and control.
4-109. When crossing the LD controlled by a stationary unit , battle handover occurs
along a general trace line designated as the BHL (see paragraph 5-18). A battle handover
is a coordinated mission between two units that transfers responsibility for fighting an
enemy force from one unit to another (FM 3- 90). The stationary unit commander
determines the location of the line, generally a phase line forward of the stationary unit.
The BHL is the FLOT  in the offense or forward edge of the battle area in the defense.
The line is drawn where the direct fires of forward combat elements of the stationary
unit can effectively support the passing unit until completion of the passage of lines (see
chapter 6 section III). The area between the BHL and the stationary force belongs to the
stationary unit commander. The BHL is within direct fire range and observed indirect
fire range of the stationary force. During the passage of lines , the stationary force
commander may employ security forces, obstacles, and fires in the area.