Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-41
ACTIONS ON THE OBJECTIVE (PLATOON ASSAULT) 
4-111. The platoon maintains the pace of its advance and deploys into one or more
assault forces before or upon reaching the PLD.  The platoon leader synchronizes the
occupation of support by fire and /or attack by fire positions with the maneuver of the
assault force to limit the vulnerability of the forces occupying these positions. The
platoon leader maximizes of direct fires and fire support to destroy and to suppress the
enemy, and to sustain the momentum of attack.
Support by Fire 
4-112. Platoon support forces (supporting effort) occupy support by fire positions that,
ideally, afford unobstructed observation, clear fields of fire, and cover and concealment.
Selection of support by fire positions are based on a study of the terrain , knowledge of
enemy locations , or likely enemy locations , and refined in execution through leader
reconnaissance when possible. If the enemy situation is vague or unknown, positions are 
selected to place effective fire on terrain that dominates the area the assaul t force will
traverse and seize. Once in position, support forces are responsible for both suppressing
known enemy forces and for scanning assigned sectors of observation to identify
previously unknown enemy elements to suppress them. The protection provided by
support forces allow the assault force to continue movement and to retain the initiative
even when under enemy observation or within range of enemy weapons.
Assault 
4-113. The platoon leader retains the assault force in covered and concealed positions
until the support force has set necessary conditions. The assault force must be prepared
to deal with unanticipated protective obstacles in/around the objective area, particularly
in buildings or fortified areas. Once committed, the platoon’s assault is short , violent,
and well ordered. The assault force seizes or secures a geographic objective, or destroys,
defeats, or disrupts a designated enemy force. From the PLD , the assault force
maneuvers against or around the enemy to take advantage of support fires. The assault
force must closely follow these supporting fires to gain ground that offers a positional
advantage. Depending on the size and preparation of enemy forces, it may be necessary
to isolate and destroy portions of the enemy in sequence. It may also be necessary to
reposition support forces to continue to engage the depth of , or beyond, the objective
area.
4-114. Between the PLD and the objective, an assault position(s) and a final
coordination line may be established to control the final stages of the assault. Assaulting
forces usually plan to pass through the assault position and deploy to their final assault
formation at final coordination line.  Stopping at the assault position may allow the
enemy to react to the assault and may make it difficult for the assault force to regain the
momentum of the assault once the force halts in a covered position. When used, the
assault force pauses at the assault position only to—
 Make final equipment preparations , such as to make final preparations for
demolitions.
 To ensure all assault forces are in their planned order.