Chapter 4 
4-50 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
Finish the Enemy 
4-140. During the assault, the attacking force maneuvers to gain positional advantage
to seize, retain, and exploit the initiative while avoiding the enemy’s defensive strength.
The attacker employs tactics defeating the enemy by attacking through a point of relative 
weakness, such as a flank or the rear. The key for success is to strike hard and fast ,
overwhelm a portion of the enemy force, and quickly transition to the next objective or
phase, thus maintaining the momentum of attack without reducing the pressure .
Movement From the Line of Departure to the Probable Line of Deployment 
4-141. The platoon conducts tactical movement  (approach march) once it crosses the
LD. It moves aggressively and as quickly as the terrain and enemy situation allow. It
moves forward using the appropriate movement formation and movement technique
assisted by the fires (when required) of supporting units. Fire and movement are
coordinated closely. Suppressive fires facilitate friendly movement , and friendly
movement facilitates more fires. Whenever possible, the attacking platoon uses avenues
of approach avoiding strong enemy defensive positions, takes advantage of all available
cover and concealment , placing the unit on the flanks or rear of the defending enemy.
Where cover and concealment are not available, the unit uses obscurants to conceal its
movement.
Actions at the Probable Line of Deployment, Assault Position, or Final Coordination 
Line 
4-142. The attacking platoon maintains the pace of its advance as it approaches its
PLD. The attacking platoon splits into one or more assault and support forces once it
reaches the PLD if not previously completed. Assaulting forces usually plan to pass
through the assault position and deploy to their final assault formation at final
coordination line (see paragraph 4- 114). All forces supporting the assault force should
be set in their support  and attack by fire  positions before the assault force begins its
assault. The platoon leader synchronizes the occupation of support by fire positions with
the maneuver of the supported attacking element to limit the vulnerability of for ces
occupying these positions. Leaders use unit tactical SOPs , battle drills , prearranged
signals, engagement area, and TRP to control direct and indirect fires from these
supporting positions and normally employs restrictive fire lines ( RFLs) between
converging forces.
Conduct a Breach 
4-143. To conduct a breach successfully , the platoon applies the breaching
fundamentals of suppress , obscure, secure, reduce, and assault (see chapter 6 section I
for information on the fundamentals). The support force sets the conditions ; the breach
force reduces , clears, and marks the required number of lanes through the enemy’ s
tactical obstacles to support the maneuver of the assault force. The leader must clearly
identify the conditions allowing the breach force to proceed to avoid confusion. For
example, one condition is the use of a minimum safe line when a friendly element, such
as a breach force, is moving toward an area of indirect fires. As the breach force