Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-55
Actions on the Objective 
4-146. The effects of overwhelming and simultaneous application of fire , movement,
and shock action characterize the final assault. This violent assault destroys or defeats
and drives the enemy from the objective area. Small units conduct the final assault while
operating under the control of the appropriate echelon command post.
4-147. Assaulting forces usually plan to pass through the assault position and deploy
to their final assault formation at the final coordination line. The final coordination line
is a phase line close to the enemy position used to coordinate the lifting or shifting of
supporting fires with the final deployment of maneuver elements (ADP 3- 90). Ideally
when established and utilized, the platoon’s assault element occupies the assault position 
without the enemy detecting the platoon’s elements. Preparations in the assault position
may include preparing Bangalore , other breaching equipment , or demolitions ; fixing
bayonets; lifting or shifting direct fires; or preparing generated obscuration (for example,
smoke pots and hand grenades).
4-148. If the platoon is detected as it nears its assault position, indirect fire suppression
is required on the objective and the support element increases its volume of fire. If the
platoon needs to make last-minute preparations, then it occupies the assault position. If
the platoon does not need to stop, it passes through the assault position, treating it as a
PLD and assaults the objective. Sometimes, a platoon must halt to complete preparation
and to ensure synchronization of friendly forces. Once the assault  element moves
forward of the assault position, the assault continues. If the assault element stops or turns
back, the element could sustain excessive casualties.
4-149. Infantry leaders employ all direct and indirect fire support means to destroy and
suppress the enemy and sustain the momentum of attack. By carefully synchronizing the
effects of indirect -fire systems and available close air support ( CAS), leaders improve
the likelihood of success. Fires are planned in series or groups to support maneuver
against enemy forces on or near the geographical objective. As leaders shift artillery
fires and obscurants from the objective to other targets , the assault element moves
rapidly across the objective. The support element must not allow its suppressive fires to
lapse. These fires isolate the objective and prevent the enemy from reinforcing or
counterattacking. They also destroy escaping enemy forces and systems.
Follow Through 
4-150. Once an enemy is finished , actions by the platoon are not complete. Small
remaining elements of the enemy may require the platoon to destroy them in detail. If
all enemy forces are not neutralized—a tactical mission task in which a unit renders the
enemy incapable of interfering with an operation ( FM 3 -90)—the platoon maintains
constant pressure to keep them off balance while capitalizing on successful tactical
actions.
4-151. Consolidate is the process of organizing and strengthening a newly captured
position so it can be defended. Normally , the attacking unit tries to exploit its success
regardless the type of assault. In some situations , however, the unit may have to
consolidate its gains. Consolidat e may vary from a rapid repositioning of forces and