Chapter 4 
4-42 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
 Wait for preparatory fires to finish.
 Ensure conditions are set for the assault (for example, sufficient suppression,
obscuration, or a necessary breach).
4-115. The objective for the assault force may vary from operation to operation. In
every case, the assault force ’s actions on the objective are critical. Assault forces
maneuver through fire and movement. Supporting fires must immediately gain fire
superiority on the objective in coordination with fires around and beyond the objective
to disrupt enemy reinforcement. As the assault closes on the objective , fires shift just
forward of the assault force as it moves across the objective or until ordered to stop or
shift to other target beyond the assault force or LOA.
Note. The key is to minimize the time between the shifting of fires and the 
maneuver of the assault force on the objective. The enemy must be suppressed 
during this time when the assault force is most vulnerable. 
Follow Through (Consolidate, Reorganize, and Transition) 
4-116. The platoon and squad consolidate and reorganize as required by the situation
and mission. During consolidate and reorganization, the platoon may use protective
obstacles (see paragraphs 5 -56 to 5-58) to aid in flank security and to protect against
enemy counterattacks. Additionally, echelons above the platoon may use tactical
obstacles (see paragraphs 5-52 to 5-55) to shape enemy routes of withdrawal and to cut
off enemy reinforcements.
4-117. Once the platoon takes an enemy position, it consolidates on that position if
doing so is tactically necessary or advantageous. Consolidate  is to organize and
strengthen a captured position to use it against the enemy (FM 3- 90). Normally , the
attacking platoon tries to exploit its success ; however, in some situations the platoon
may have to pause to consolidate its gains. Consolidated may vary from a rapid
repositioning of forces and security elements on the objective, to a reorganization of the
attacking force , or to the organization and detailed improvement of the position for
defense. Additional actions taken to consolidate include—
 Seeking out and eliminating enemy pockets of resistance (on and off the
objective)/secure enemy detainees.
 Searching and marking positions to indicate to other friendly forces that they
have been cleared.
 Establishing local security (see paragraph 6-79) and hasty defensive fighting
positions (see paragraphs 5-2 29 to 5-232) while utilizing existing obstacles
(see paragraph 5-45) if possible.
 Using security patrols, observation posts/combat outposts, and early warning
devices to provide protection and situational awareness.
 Establishing indirect fire targets, FPF, and final protective line (FPL).
 Establishing mutual support between individual fighting positions , adjacent
squads/adjacent platoons, to include: