Chapter 4 
4-24 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
body. Guides within the quartering party guide the different elements of the main body 
into assigned locations within the TAA. 
4-62. Once the TAA is established, the platoon prepares for upcoming operations  and
leaders plan, direct, and supervise mission preparations. This time allows the platoon
and squads to conduct precombat checks  (PCCs), precombat inspections (PCIs),
rehearsals, and sustainment activities. The platoon typically conducts these preparations
within a company T AA, as it rarely occupies its own T AA. (See ATP 3 -21.10 for
additional information.)
RECONNAISSANCE AND SURVEILLANCE 
4-63. All leaders should aggressively seek information about the terrain and enemy.
Because the enemy situation and available planning time may limit a unit ’s
reconnaissance and surveillance activities, the platoon usually conducts reconnaissance
to answer the CCIRs. An example is reconnoitering and timing routes from the TAA to
the LD. The platoon may augment the efforts of the battalion scout platoon to answer
the CCIRs. For example , the platoon may conduct a n area or  zone reconnaissance to
reconnoiter an identified named area of  interest (NAI). A named area of interest  is a
geospatial area or systems node or link against which information that will satisfy a
specific information requirement can be collected, usually to capture indications of
enemy and adversary courses of action (JP 2 -0). Other forms of reconnaissance and
surveillance provided to the platoon may include information from maps and terrain
software/databases and unmanned aircraft systems. Updates from reconnaissance and
surveillance activities can occur at any time while the p latoon and squad are planning
for, preparing for , or executing the mission. As a result , leaders must be prepared to
adjust their plans.
MOVEMENT TO THE LINE OF DEPARTURE 
4-64. The platoon and squad typically move from the T AA to the LD as part of the
company movement plan. This plan may direct the platoon or squad to move to an
attack position—the last position an attacking force occupies or passes through before
crossing the line of departure (ADP 3-90)—and await orders to cross the LD. If so, the
platoon leader reconnoiters, times, and rehearses the route to the attack position. Squad
leaders know where they are to locate within the assigned attack position. The company
commander may order all platoons to move within a company formation from the TAA
directly to the point of departure—the point where the unit crosses the line of departure
and begins moving along a direction of attack (ADP 3- 90). If one PD  is used , it is
important the lead platoon and trail platoons reconnoiter, time, and rehearse the route to
the point. This allows the company commander to maintain synchronization. To
maintain flexibility and to maintain synchronization , a PD along the LD may be
designated for each platoon.  Movement to and/or across the LD may entail a forward
passage of line (see chapter 6 section III for additional information).