Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-63
friendly forces by restricting movement and activity within the screen. It 
provides maximum concealment.  
 Obscuration haze. An obscuration haze is obscuration placed over friendly
areas to restrict adversary observation with fire, but not dense enough to
disrupt friendly operations within the screen.
 Obscuration curtain. An obscuration curtain is a vertical development of
smoke that reduces the enemy ’s ability to clearly identify what is occurring
on the other side of the cloud. Visual recognition depends on the curtain width 
and obscurant density. It is placed between friendly and enemy positions to
prevent or degrade enemy ground observation of friendly positions. Since the
obscuration curtain is not placed directly on friendly troops , it will not
hamper friendly operations.
Planning and Preparation Considerations 
4-181. Obscuration missions are important functions for grenade launchers and
mortars. Obscuration missions must be planned well and prepared for in advance so that
the grenade launchers or mortar carriers are loaded with enough obscuration rounds.
4-182. Atmospheric stability, wind velocity, and wind direction are the most important
factors when planning target effects for obscuration and WP mortar rounds. The effects
of atmospheric stability can determine whether projected  obscuration is effective at all
or, if effective, how much ammunition is needed. The considerations are—
 During unstable conditions , grenade and mortar obscuration rounds are
almost ineffective—the obscuration does not spread but often climbs straight
up and quickly dissipates.
 Under stable conditions , both grenade and mortar obscuration rounds are
effective.
 The higher the humidity, the better the screening effects of grenade  and
mortar obscuration rounds.
4-183. The terrain in the target area affects obscuration rounds. If the terrain in the
target area is swampy , rain-soaked, or snow-covered, then burning obscuration rounds
may not be effective. These rounds produce obscuration by ejecting felt wedges soaked
in phosphorous. These wedges then burn on the ground, producing a dense, long-lasting
cloud. If the wedges fall into mud, water, or snow, they can extinguish. Shallow water
can reduce the obscuration produced by these rounds by as much as 50 percent.
4-184. The vehicle mounted grenade launchers (from the assault platoon of the
weapons company) can provide a screening , incendiary, marking, and
casualty-producing effect. It produces a localized , instantaneous obscuration cloud by
scattering burning WP particles. The 120- millimeter (mm) heavy mortar and 81 -mm
medium battalion mortar WP and red phosphorous rounds produce a long lasting and
wide area obscuration screen and can be used for incendiary  effects, such as marking,
obscuring, screening, and casualty producing. The 60-mm lightweight company mortar
WP round can be used as a screening, signaling, and incendiary agent. All mortar
obscuration rounds can be used as an aid in target location and navigation.