Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-13
SECTION II – COMMON OFFENSIVE PLANNING 
CONSIDERATIONS 
4-28. Platoon leaders begin with a designated AO, identified mission , and assigned
forces. They develop and issue planning guidance based on visualization relating to the
physical means to accomplish the mission. Within the planning process , a warfighting
function is a group of tasks and systems united by a common purpose that the platoon
leader uses to accomplish missions. Warfighting functions provide an intellectual
organization for common critical functions. The following paragraphs discuss activities,
functions, and specific operational environments as the framework for discussing
offensive planning considerations.
Note. A warfighting function i s a group of tasks and systems united by a common 
purpose that commanders use to accomplish missions and training objectives 
(ADP 3-0). The six warfighting functions are command and control , movement 
and maneuver, intelligence, fires, sustainment, and protection. (See FM 3-96 for 
additional information.) 
COMMAND AND CONTROL 
4-29. In the Infantry rifle platoon , the platoon leader is the central figure in command
and control and is essential to integrating the capabilities of the warfighting functions.
Command and control provides the greatest possible freedom of action to subordinates,
facilitating their abilities to develop the situation , adapt, and act decisively through
disciplined initiative within the platoon leader ’s intent. It focuses on empowering
subordinate leaders and sharing information to facilitate decentralized execution.
Note. The art of command comprises the creative and skillful exercise of 
authority through timely decision making and leadership. Commanders 
constantly use judgment gained from experience and training to delegate 
authority, make decisions , determine the appropriate degree of control , and 
allocate resources. Control , as contrasted with command , is more science than 
art. As such , it relies on objectivity , facts, empirical methods , and analysis. 
Control requires a realistic appreciation of time and distance factors , including 
the time required to initiate, complete, and assess directed actions. Commanders 
exercise control to direct and adjust operations as conditions dictate. The science 
of control supports the art of command. (See FM 3 -96 for additional 
information.) 
4-30. Command and control conveys the leader ’s intent and an appreciation of
METT-TC (I), with special emphasis on—
 Enemy positions, strengths, and capabilities.
 Missions and objectives , including task and purpose , for each subordinate
element’s shared understanding.