Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-21
 Keep subordinate forces within supporting distances to facilitate a flexible
response.
 Maintains contact regardless of the COA adopted once contact is made.
ORGANIZATION OF FORCES 
4-57. The Infantry rifle platoon normally conducts movement to contact as part of a
company within the battalion; however, based on the mission variables of METT-TC (I)
it can conduct the operation independently. As an example , the platoon may conduct a
movement to contact prior to occupation of a screen line (see FM 3-98) or to expand an
airhead line , assault objective, or security area boundary (see FM 3 -99). Because the
enemy situation is not clear , the platoon moves in a way that provides security and
supports a rapid buildup of combat power against enemy units once they are identified.
If no contact occurs , the platoon might be directed to conduct consolidat e on the line ,
objective, or boundary. The platoon leader analyzes the situation and selects the proper
movement formation and movement technique (see chapter 3 section II) to conduct the
mission. The leader reports all information rapidly and accurately and strives to gain and 
maintain contact with the enemy. The platoon leader retains freedom of maneuver by
moving the platoon in a manner that—
 Employs a movement formation and technique that keeps the bulk of the
platoon out of contact and able to maneuver when making contact.
 Rapidly develops the situation to gain understanding of the disposition of
threat forces.
 Ensures continuous, effective overwatch of moving elements.
 Ensures the platoon’s elements are not fixed in position by enemy fires.
 Gains fire superiority when in contact to suppress enemy forces.
Note. In both the offense and defense ,  forms of contact occur when a unit 
encounters any situation that requires an active or passive response to a threat or 
potential threat. The nine  forms of contact are direct ; indirect; nonhostile; 
obstacle; CBRN; aerial; visual; electromagnetic; and influence. The conduct of 
tactical offensive and defensive operations most often involves contact using the 
visual, direct, and indirect forms. 
4-58. When the Infantry rifle platoon conducts a movement to contact within the
Infantry rifle company as part of the Infantry battalion ’s independent movement to
contact, the battalion normally organizes (as a minimum) with its companies and
platoons allocated within the forward security force and a main body. (See figure 4-5 on
page 4 -22.) The forward security force generally comprises a reconnaissance and
surveillance force (can be detailed from both the maneuver companies and the scout
platoon), an advance guard, and flank and rear security. The main body consists of forces 
not detailed to security duties. Combat elements of the main body prepare to respond to
enemy contact with security forces. Fire support teams (FISTs) may displace forward so
they can respond to calls for fire immediately. The main body follows the advance guard 
and keeps enough distance between itself and the advance guard to maintain flexibility.