Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-31
 Actions to cross danger areas.
 Main body (participating as or in advance guard) , making contact with a
small enemy force.
 Main body (participating as or in advance guard), making contact with a large 
force beyond its capabilities to defeat.
 Main body (participating as or in advance guard) , making contact with an
obstacle reconnaissance forces and surveillance assets did not identify and
report.
 Flank/rear security force (participating in higher echelon movement to
contact), making contact with a small force.
 Flank/rear security force (participating in higher echelon movement to
contact), making contact with a large force beyond its capability to defeat.
 Actions to report and bypass—a tactical mission task in which a unit
deliberately avoids contact with an obstacle or enemy force (FM 3 -90)—of
an enemy force (based on bypass criteria).
 Maneuver options and transitions.
EXECUTE 
4-81. During execution, the platoon moves rapidly to maintain the advantage of a rapid
tempo. However , the platoon leader must balance the need for speed with the
requirement for security. The platoon leader bases the decision on the effectiveness of
higher echelon reconnaissance and surveillance efforts , effects of terrain , and the
enemy’s capabilities. The platoon leader closely tracks the movement and location of
subordinate squads, attachments, and adjacent units. This ensures that battalion and/or
company security forces provide adequate security for the main body and that they
remain within supporting range of the main body , mortars, and field artillery. The
platoon synchronizes its actions with adjacent and supporting units, maintaining contact
and coordination as prescribed in orders and unit SOP. The following paragraphs discuss 
executing a movement to contact (the platoon is subordinate to the company for this
discussion) using the four-step tactical framework of the offense discussed earlier in this
chapter.
Find the Enemy 
4-82. Reconnaissance forces and surveillance assets focus on determining the enemy ’s
dispositions, providing the platoon leader through the company with relevant combat
information. This relevant information helps to ensure subordinate squads and
attachments are committed under optimal conditions. The platoon leader uses all
available sources of intelligence and combat information to find the enemy ’s location
and dispositions. With this information , the platoon leader and squad leaders work to
ensure that the platoon, as the lead element of the company, makes enemy contact with
the smallest element possible to preserve combat power and conceal the size and
capabilities of the company main body following the lead element.