Chapter 4 
4-48 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 11 January 2024 
Find the Enemy 
4-138. Gaining and maintaining contact with the enemy (when the enemy is
determined to hide , deny, or break contact) is vital to the success of an attack. As
platoons moves from the LD and cross the PLD towards the objective and as current
intelligence and relevant combat information on the enemy is updated, the enemy
situation generally becomes clearer. Platoon leaders and subordinate leaders , through
actions on contact (see paragraph 2-48), rapidly develop the situation in accordance with
the company commander’s plan and intent for the attack.
Note. The fictional scenario ,  used as discussion vehicles in figure 4 -8 on 
page 4-49, figure 4-9 on page 4 -52, and figure 4-10 on page 4 -54, illustrate 
different ways an Infantry rifle platoon can accomplish its mission within the 
conduct of a higher echelon ’s attack. For discussion purposes, the fictional 
scenario will primarily focus on the actions of Company C , the battalion’s main 
effort. These three examples illustrate  potential challenges confronting the 
platoon leader in accomplishing an attack (specifically platoon breach and 
platoon assault) but are not intended to be prescriptive of how the Infantry rifle 
platoon performs any particular operation. This same scenari o drives the attack 
techniques used in ATP 3- 21.10 and ATP  3-21.20. ATP 3- 21.8 focuses on the 
techniques used to perform missions, functions, or tasks in support of the Infantry 
rifle company within an Infantry battalion’s attack. 
Fix the Enemy 
4-139. Prior to the attack , battalion support by fire positions ( SBF-3 and SBF-4,
reference figure 4-8 on page 4-49) once established fix enemy actions prior to (initially),
on, and surrounding the company objective. Additional operations to fix and/or
disrupt—a tactical mission task in which a unit upsets an enemy ’s formation or tempo
and causes the enemy force to attack prematurely or in a piecemeal fashion (FM 3-90)—
the enemy includes preparatory fires and deception operations to deceive the enemy. By
fixing and/or disrupting the enemy, the objective of the attacker’s main effort is isolated
to prevent the enemy from maneuvering to reinforce the enemy targeted for destruction.
Massing forces in one place by using economy of force measures in other areas allows
the attacker to mass the effects of overwhelming combat power against a portion of the
enemy. The following example , see figure 4 -8 on page 4- 49, used for discussion
purposes, represents one way to fix enemy actions prior to the assault. In the scenario,
as assault forces close on the objective, Company C commander employs attached
Assault Platoon 3 (with attached company mortar section) in such a way that the
commander is best able to maximize isolation of the two points of breach (see chapter 6
section I) locations forward of Objective Fox North.