Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-17
ground routes or avenues of approach. During the attack, active and passive air defense 
measures are integrated and synchronized with the use of obscuration to support critical 
actions such as breaching or assaults. (See paragraphs 5 -78 to 5 -79 for additional 
information on active and passive air defense.) 
Note. Survivability encompasses capabilities of military forces both while on the 
move and when stationary, see chapter 5 for additional information on 
survivability focus more on stationary capabilities —constructing fighting and 
protective positions and hardening facilities.  
4-45. The platoon leader integrates chemical , biological, radiological, and nuclear
(CBRN) operations considerations (see paragraphs 5 -80 to 5 -101) into offensive
planning depending on the CBRN threat. This includes CBRN passive defense
principles, such as contamination avoidance , individual and collective protection , and
decontamination. CBRN protective measures may slow the tempo , degrade combat
power, and increase sustainment requirements. Soldiers wearing individual protective
equipment find it difficult to work or fight for an extended period. CBRN considerations
include the following:
 Understand threat capabilities and likelihood to use CBRN.
 Employ organic CBRN capabilities  to maximize protection across the
platoon.
 Disseminate information regarding observed CBRN threats or hazards to the
platoon immediately, send report to higher.
 Understand duration of protection gear effectiveness (see paragraph 5- 92 to
5-101).
 Ensure Soldiers have necessary medical countermeasures (such as antidote
treatment nerve agent auto-injector) and decontamination kits.
 Development of decontamination plans based on the platoon leader ’s
priorities and vulnerability assessment.
 Dissemination of information regarding planned and active decontamination
sites.
 Preparate to conduct CBRN reconnaissance and surveillance (normally
conducted by the scout platoon) to assist in CBRN reconnaissance and
surveillance efforts.
4-46. Like the protection requirements that are reflected in the mission -oriented
protective posture (MOPP) level  (see chapter 5  section II ), personal protective
equipment posture (PPEP) provides a threat -based framework for commanders and
subordinate leaders to reference regarding the level of body armor and personal
protective equipment Soldiers need to wear while conducting an operation. The PPEP
levels range from PPEP 0 to PPEP 3 and act as a common language to standardize
protection levels and suggested protection level based on the possible threats present on
the battlefield. (See ATP 3-21.18 for additional information on PPEP.)