Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-43
 Automatic weapons (man position and assign principal direction of fire
[known as PDF] to Soldiers manning automatic weapons).
 Fields of fire (establish sectors of fire and other direct fire control
measures for each subunit/Soldier).
 Protection requirements such as defining type fighting position and
building fighting positions.
4-118. Reorganization is all measures taken by the commander to maintain unit
combat effectiveness or return it to a specified level of combat capability (ATP 3-94.4).
While combat effectiveness is the ability of a unit to perform its mission , factors such
as ammunition , personnel, status of fuel , and weapon systems are assessed and rated
(see paragraph 2-80). Reorganization actions can include cross-leveling ammunition and 
ensuring key weapon systems are manned and vital leadership positions are filled if the
operator or crew became casualties. Additional actions include—
 Reestablishing the chain of command.
 Manning key weapon systems.
 Maintaining communications and reports, to include:
 Restoring communication with any unit temporarily out of
communication.
 Sending situation reports (at a minimum , subordinates report status of
mission accomplishment).
 Identifying and requesting resupply of critical shortages.
 Resupplying and redistributing ammunition and other critical supplies.
 Performing special team actions such as—
 Processing, and evacuating causalities , enemy prisoners of wars , enemy
weapons, noncombatants/refugees, and damaged equipment (not
necessarily in the same location).
 Evacuating friendly killed in action.
4-119. The platoon executes follow -on orders/missions as directed by the company
commander. For example, to reposition the force on the objective and establish security
observation posts forward of the objective to prepare for a counterattack, or to organize
the force and conduct detailed improvement of fighting positions for defensive missions.
A likely mission may be to continue the attack against the enemy within the AO.
Regardless of the situation, the platoon and subordinate squads’ posture and prepare for
continued offensive missions.
OPERATIONS PROCESS 
4-120. During an attack , the platoon leader seeks to place the enemy in a position
where the enemy can be defeated or destroyed easily. The platoon leader seeks to keep
the enemy off- balance while continually reducing the enemy’ s options. The platoon
leader employs movement and maneuver supported by other warfighting capabilities to
prevent the enemy from accomplishing its mission and objective s. The amount of time
available for planning and preparation will determine whether the attack is conducted as