Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-11
movement seeks to make the enemy force displace from their current locations, whereas 
an enveloping force seeks to engage the enemy in their current locations from an 
unexpected direction. A turning movement is particularly suited for division- sized or 
larger forces possessing a high degree of tactical mobility. The Infantry rifle platoon 
participates in a turning movement as part of that larger force, most likely as a supporting 
effort or fixing force as opposed to the main effort involving the turning force. (See 
ATP 3-21.20 for additional information.) 
PENETRATION 
4-22. A penetration is a form of maneuver in which a force attack s on a narrow front
(FM 3 -90). Destroying the continuity of defense allows the enemy’ s subsequent
isolation and defeat in detail by exploiting friendly forces. The penetration extends from
the enemy’s security area through main defensive positions into the enemy support area.
The leader employs a penetration when there is no assailable flank, enemy defenses are
overextended and weak spots are detected in the enemy ’s positions, or time pressures
do not permit enve lopment. Penetrations are normally only conducted at battalion
echelon and above. When essential to the accomplishment of the mission, intermediate
objectives should be planned for the attack. Usually, when the penetration is successfully 
completed, Infantry units within the battalion transition to another form of maneuver.
(See ATP 3-21.20 for additional information.)
COMMON OFFENSIVE CONTROL MEASURES 
4-23. The higher commander defines the leader ’s intent and establishes control
measures allowing for decentralized execution and leader initiative to the greatest extent. 
Common control measures for the offense are the—
 Assault position, assault time, and tactical assembly area (TAA).
 Attack by fire position, attack position, and axis of advance.
 Battle handover line (BHL).
 Direction of attack.
 Final coordination line and forward line of own troops (FLOT).
 LOA and LD.
 Objective and ORP.
 Phase line.
 Passage line, passage point, and PD
 Probable line of deployment (PLD).
 Rally point and release point.
 Support by fire position.
 Time of attack.
 Zone.
4-24. An AO defines the location where subordinate units conduct their offensive
actions. One technique breaks the battalion and company AO into many-named smaller
AO. Units remain in designated AO as they conduct their missions. Battalion and higher