Offense 
11 January 2024 ATP 3-21.8 (INCL C1) 4-23
CONTROL MEASURES 
4-59. Execution of a movement to contact usually starts from an LD at the time specified 
in the operation order (OPORD). The unit ’s movement is controlled by phase lines ,
contact points, and checkpoints as required. The depth of the movement to contact is
usually controlled by a limit of advance —a phase line used to control forward progress
of the attack (ADP 3 -90)—or a forward boundary —a boundary that delineates the
forward edge of a unit’s area of operation (FM 3-90). A lateral boundary is a boundary
defining the left or right limit of a unit’ s assigned area (FM 3 -90). One or more
objectives is designated to limit the extent of the movement to contact and to orient the
force. However , these are often terrain -oriented (commonly called march objectives)
and used only to guide movement. Although movement to contact may result in taking
a terrain objective , the primary focus should be on the enemy force. The leader can
designate a series of phase lines successively becoming the new rear boundary—a
boundary that delineates the rearward limits of a unit ’s assigned area (FM 3 -90)—of
forward security elements as the force advances. Each rear boundary becomes the
forward boundary of the main body and shifts as the security force moves forward. The
rear boundary of the main body designates the limit of responsibility of the rear security
element. This line also shifts as the main body moves forward. When enough
information is available to locate a significant enemy force(s) , then another type of
offensive operation (for example, an attack) should be conducted. (See FM 3 -90 for
additional information.)
SEQUENCE OF EVENTS, EXAMPLE 
4-60. Most platoon movement to contacts will follow a sequence of events as part of a
larger movement to contact. This sequence of events is used for discussion purposes and
is not the only way to sequence a movement to contact. With any sequence , leaders
understand events will vary depending on the mission variables of METT-TC (I) and to
some degree, events will overlap. The sequence of events includes:
 TAA.
 Reconnaissance and surveillance.
 Movement to the LD.
 Movement after the LD.
 Initial engagement (transition to a maneuver plan).
TACTICAL ASSEMBLY AREA 
4-61. A tactical assembly area  is an area that is generally out of the reach of light
artillery and the location where units make final preparations (precombat checks and
inspections) and rest, prior to moving to the line of departure (JP 3- 35). Prior to
establishing the TAA, a quartering party—a group dispatched to a new assigned area in
advance of the main body (FM 3- 90)—secures , reconnoiters, and organizes the T AA
before the main body’ s arrival and occupation. A quartering party is a group of unit
representatives dispatched to a probable new site of operations in advance of the main